                  MSTE Combined Question Bank

                             511 items - definition prompts shown directly without the added question phrase

1. Standard sign shape for STOP sign.
         A. Octagon
         B. Circle
         C. Heart
         D. Equilateral triangle
         Answer: Octagon

2. Standard sign shape for GIVE WAY sign.
         A. Octagon
         B. Circle
         C. Equilateral triangle
         D. Rectangle
         Answer: Circle

3. Standard sign shape for regulatory signs.
         A. Octagon
         B. Circle
         C. Equilateral triangle
         D. Rectangle
         Answer: Equilateral triangle

4. Standard sign shape for additional information.
         A. Octagon
         B. Circle
         C. Equilateral triangle
         D. Rectangle
         Answer: Rectangle

5. Standard sign shape for warning signs.
         A. Octagon
         B. Circle
         C. Equilateral triangle
         D. Rectangle
         Answer: Equilateral triangle

6. Standard sign shape for directional signs, roadwork signs, signs for special purposes, and
supplementary plates for warning signs.

         A. Octagon
         B. Circle
         C. Equilateral triangle
         D. Rectangle
         Answer: Rectangle

7. Standard sign shape for facility information signs, instruction signs, guide signs and
destinations of point of interest.

         A. Octagon
         B. Circle
         C. Equilateral triangle
         D. Rectangle
         Answer: Rectangle

8. Standard sign shape for pedestrian and school crossing sign.
         A. Octagon
         B. Pentagon
         C. Equilateral triangle
         D. Rectangle
         Answer: Pentagon

9. It is anything that can cause harm.
         A. Hazard
         B. Risk
         C. Severity
         D. Accidents
         Answer: Hazard

10. It is the probability of harm actually being done.
         A. Hazard
         B. Risk
         C. Severity
         D. Likehood
         Answer: Risk

11. It is a violation of an accepted safe procedure which could permit the occurrence of an
accident.

         A. Accident
         B. Risk
         C. Unsafe Act
         D. Unsafe Condition
         Answer: Unsafe Act

12. A hazardous physical condition or circumstance which could directly permit the occurrence of
an accident.

         A. Accident
         B. Risk
         C. Unsafe Act
         D. Unsafe Condition
         Answer: Unsafe Condition
13. It is advisable for a site plan to contain a large-scale map of the overall area and to indicate
where the project is located on the site.

         A. Location Map
         B. Site Plan Map
         C. Vicinity Map
         D. Google Map
         Answer: Vicinity Map

14. It provides the detailed requirements for the materials, equipment and workmanship to be
incorporated into the project.

         A. Specifications
         B. Bid Documents
         C. Estimates
         D. Plans
         Answer: Specifications

15. This drawing has elevation as its vertical axis and horizontal distance as measured along the
centerline of the facility (or other reference line) as its horizontal axis.

         A. Profile
         B. Geographic
         C. Topographic
         D. Surface
         Answer: Profile

16. Device mounted on a fixed support (permanent signs) or portable support (temporary signs)
whereby a specific message is conveyed by means of words or symbols placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.

         A. Roadwork signs
         B. Traffic signs
         C. Overhead signs
         D. Special instruction signs
         Answer: Traffic signs

17. Signs that inform road users of the traffic laws and regulations which are disregarded will
constitute an offense.

         A. Warning Signs
         B. Regulatory Signs
         C. Overhead Signs
         D. Guide Signs
         Answer: Regulatory Signs

18. Signs that instruct road users to meet certain traffic rule requirements on road condition.
         A. Special Instruction Signs
         B. Regulatory Signs
         C. Warning Signs
         D. Guide Signs
         Answer: Special Instruction Signs

19. Signs which warn road users of condition on or adjacent to the road maybe unexpected or
hazardous.

         A. Overhead Signs
         B. Roadwork Signs
         C. Warning Signs
         D. Guide Signs
         Answer: Warning Signs

20. Signs which warns or advise temporary hazardous conditions that could endanger road users
or the men and equipment engaged on roadworks.

         A. Overhead Signs
         B. Roadwork Signs
         C. Warning Signs
         D. Guide Signs
         Answer: Roadwork Signs

21. Signs which provide means of displaying essential traffic information on wide multi- lane
roads, where some degree of lane use control is required or where side of road clearance is
insufficient to accomodate a road side sign.

         A. Overhead Signs
         B. Roadwork Signs
         C. Warning Signs
         D. Guide Signs
         Answer: Overhead Signs

22. Signs which inform and advise road users of directions, distances, routes and the location of
services for road users and point of interest.

         A. Overhead Signs
         B. Roadwork Signs
         C. Warning Signs
         D. Guide Signs
         Answer: Guide Signs

23. Signs used to guide drivers through a change in horizontal alignment of the road.
         A. Chevron signs
         B. Supplementary signs
         C. Guide signs
         D. Delineators
         Answer: Chevron signs

24. The reaction time used for road safety design is:
         A. 1.0 sec
         B. 1.5 sec
         C. 2.0 sec
         D. 2.5 sec
         Answer: 2.5 sec

25. The speed limit appropriate on lower standard expressways.
         A. 50 or 60 kph
         B. 60 or 75 kph
         C. 90 or 100 kph
         D. 80 or 90 kph
         Answer: 80 or 90 kph

26. Ideal capacity of a road is:
         A. 2000 vph
         B. 1800 vph
         C. 1400 vph
         D. 2500 vph
         Answer: 2000 vph

27. Which of these contour characteristics is not true?
         A. Contours on the ground can cross another.
         B. Contours are at the right angles to the slope.
         C. Contour on the ground closes itself.
         D. Contours point upstream.
         Answer: Contours on the ground can cross another.

28. In the Standard practice of measuring vertical or zenith angles, the following practices are of
great importance: I. Be sure the instrument is level II. Sight with thevertical crosshair III. Sight
exactly on the target IV. Sight direct and reverse Which standard practices are true?

         A. I only
         B. I, III & IV only
         C. I & III only
         D. All of the above
         Answer: I, III & IV only

29. is the process of increasing the density of a soil by mechanically forcing the soil particles
closer together, thereby expelling air from the void spaces in the soil.

         A. Compression
         B. Consolidation
         C. Compaction
         D. Contraction
         Answer: Compaction

30. is an increase in soil density of a cohesive soil resulting from the expulsion of water from the
soil's void spaces.

         A. Compression
         B. Consolidation
         C. Compaction
         D. Contraction
         Answer: Consolidation

31. Compactor production is based on the following data: I.Number of paces required II.Width
compacted per pass III.Compactor speed IV.Compacted lift thickness V.Job Efficiency

         A. I, III, IV and V
         B. I, II, IV, and V
         C. all of the above
         D. II, III, IV and V
         Answer: all of the above

32. The process of giving natural soils enough abrasive resistance and shear strength to
accommodate traffic or design loads is called.

         A. Ground Modification
         B. Dynamic Compaction
         C. Vibroflotation
         D. Surcharging
         Answer: Ground Modification

33. or placing additional weight on the soil surface, has long been used to densify cohesive soils.
         A. Ground Modification
         B. Dynamic Compaction
         C. Vibroflotation
         D. Surcharging
         Answer: Surcharging

34. It involves dropping a heavy weight from a crane onto the ground surface to achieve soil
densification.

         A. Ground Modification
         B. Dynamic Compaction
         C. Vibroflotation
         D. Surcharging
         Answer: Dynamic Compaction

35. is the process of densifying cohesionless inserting a vibratory probe into the soil.
         A. Ground Modification
         B. Dynamic Compaction
         C. Vibroflotation
         D. Surcharging soils by
         Answer: Vibroflotation

36. Workers in an excavation be protected from cave-ins by one of the following methods: Sloping
or benching of the sides of the excavation. Supporting the sides of the excavation by shoring. III.
Placing a shield between workers and the sides of the excavation. IV.Drying soil to prevent
collapsing. I. II.

         A. all of the above
         B. I, II, and IV
         C. I, II, and III
         D. II, III, and IV
         Answer: I, II, and III

37. In highway construction, the process of cutting down high spots and filling in low spots of
each roadway layer is called.

         A. Balancing
         B. Grading
         C. Trimming
         D. Finishing
         Answer: Balancing

38. Highway appurtenances designed to prevent vehicular penetration from the travel way to areas
behind the barrier such as to minimize damage to impacting vehicles and their occupants, and to
reduce the risk of injuries to pedestrians and workers.

         A. Traffic Cones
         B. Delineators
         C. Barriers
         D. Temporary Curbing
         Answer: Barriers

39. Warning devices used to supplement other controls devices necessary to alert motorists of
construction maintenance activities or obstructions in the roadway.

         A. Traffic Cones
         B. Delineators
         C. Barriers
         D. Flashing Lamps and and
         Answer: Flashing Lamps and and

40. Light retro-reflecting devices mounted at the side of the roadway, in series, to indicate the
roadway alignment.

         A. Traffic Cones
         B. Delineators
         C. Flexible post or Bollard
         D. Flashing Lamps
         Answer: Delineators

41. Devices which may be conical in shape or tubular shaped are capable of performing
channelization of traffic which may be set on the surface of the roadway or rigidly attached for
continued use.

         A. Traffic Cones
         B. Delineators
         C. Flexible post or Bollard
         D. Flashing Lamps
         Answer: Traffic Cones
42. Roadwork devices consisting of precast concrete sections, sandbag and others which may be
used to guide traffic at the construction site.

         A. Barriers
         B. Delineators
         C. Temporary Curbing
         D. Flexible post or Bollard
         Answer: Temporary Curbing

43. Device used in place of rigid cones with a minimum of 450 mm by 50 mm wide with alternate
bands of contrasting color as seen by approaching traffic for delineation of traffic.

         A. Barriers
         B. Delineators
         C. Temporary Curbing
         D. Flexible post or Bollard
         Answer: Flexible post or Bollard

44. Means any traffic control device marked on the surface of the carriageway used to regulate
traffic or to warn or guide road users.

         A. Chevron Signs
         B. Delineators
         C. Lane Line
         D. Road Markers
         Answer: Road Markers

45. Looking at the possibility of injury or harm occurring to a person if exposed to a hazard.
         A. Injury Reports
         B. Risk Assessment
         C. Risk Control
         D. Hazard Identification
         Answer: Risk Assessment

46. Recognizing things which may cause injury or harm to a person.
         A. Injury Reports
         B. Risk Assessment
         C. Risk Control
         D. Hazard Identification
         Answer: Hazard Identification

47. Introduction of measures which will eliminate or reduce the risk of a person being exposed to a
hazard.

         A. Injury Reports
         B. Risk Assessment
         C. Risk Control
         D. Hazard Identification
         Answer: Risk Control
48. Rule is the guidelines regarding Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
         A. 1040
         B. 1080
         C. 1070
         D. 1090
         Answer: 1080

49. An unexpected event which results in serious injury or illness of an employee and may also
result in property damage.

         A. Accident
         B. Incident
         C. Injury
         D. Risk
         Answer: Accident

50. An instance of something happening, an unexpected event or occurrence that doesn't result in
serious injury or illness but may result in property damage.

         A. Accident
         B. Incident
         C. Injury
         D. Risk
         Answer: Incident

51. A wave at a point where the depth is equal to ½ of the wavelength or greater can be expressed
in terms of the parameters of the significant wave.

         A. Deep Water Wave
         B. Highest Wave
         C. Significant Wave
         D. Equivalent Depth Wave
         Answer: Deep Water Wave

52. A hypothetical wave having a wave height and period equal to average values of the wave
height and period of the largest 1/3 of all waves in the train as counted in the order of greater wave
height

         A. Deep Water Wave
         B. Gravity Wave
         C. Significant Wave
         D. Equivalent Depth Wave
         Answer: Significant Wave

53. A maximum wave height and wave period of the maximum wave height in the wave train.
         A. Transitional Wave
         B. Highest Wave
         C. Significant Wave
         D. Equivalent Depth Wave
         Answer: Highest Wave
54. Waves which occur in water having a depth less than one half of the wavelength and the
influence of the bottom changes the form or orbital motion from circular to elliptical or near
elliptical.

         A. Shallow Water Wave
         B. Deep Water Wave
         C. Significant Wave
         D. Highest Wave
         Answer: Shallow Water Wave

55. Waves formed by the frictional drag of wind across the water surface.
         A. Shallow Wave
         B. Transitional Wave
         C. Significant Wave
         D. Gravity Wave
         Answer: Gravity Wave

56. The pressure against a vertical wall due to waves.
         A. Wave Decay
         B. Dynamic Pressure
         C. Rankines Active Pressure
         D. Clapotis
         Answer: Clapotis

57. The regular periodic rise and fall of the surface of the seas, observable along their shores.
         A. Wave
         B. Tide
         C. Period of Wave
         D. Current
         Answer: Tide

58. Waves generated by storms, which occur outside the area of observation.
         A. Swells
         B. Shoal
         C. Skewd
         D. Ebb
         Answer: Swells

59. A very long standing wave on a large but limited body of water generally occurring when a
storm dies down after producing a wind tide.

         A. Seiche
         B. Shoal
         C. Ebb
         D. Skewd
         Answer: Seiche

60. An instrument use to measure the intensity of wind.
         A. Buchanan's Scale
         B. Fibonacci Scale
         C. Beuforts Scale
         D. Antwerp Scale
         Answer: Beuforts Scale

61. In many parts of the world, the high waters reach their greatest height and the low waters at the
least height, soon after the time of full moon and new moon. These tides are called:

         A. Spring Tide
         B. Flood Tide
         C. Neap Tide
         D. Ebb Tide
         Answer: Spring Tide

62. When the lines connecting the earth with the sun and the moon form a right angle, that is the
moon is in its quarters, then the actions of the moon and sun are subtractive, and the lowest tides
of the month occur, this is called:

         A. Neap Tide
         B. Lunar Tide
         C. Diurnal Tide
         D. Ebb Tide
         Answer: Neap Tide

63. Owing to retardation of the tidal wave in the ocean by frictional force, as the earth revolves
daily around its axis and as the tide tends to follow the direction of the moon, the highest tide for
each location is not coincident with conjunction and opposition but occurs at some constant time
after new and full moon. This interval which may amount to as much as two and a half days is
known as:

         A. Diurnal Tide
         B. Lunar Tide
         C. Age of the Tide
         D. Semi-diurnal Tide
         Answer: Age of the Tide

64. The periodic rise and fall of sea level in response to the gravitational attraction of the sun and
moon as modified by the earth's rotation

         A. Rotational Tides
         B. Storm Surge
         C. Gravitational Tide
         D. Astronomical Tide
         Answer: Astronomical Tide

65. The PPA (Philippine Ports Authority) requires that water level that guarantees about water
depth for safety of the ships berthing on a certain ports and harbor, below the mean lower low
water should be equal to:

         A. 0.15m - 0.30m
         B. 0.12m - 0.40m
         C. 0.15m - 0.40m
         D. 0.12m - 0.50m
         Answer: 0.15m - 0.40m

66. Joints placed in concrete pavements, which are usually placed transversely, at regular
intervals, to provide adequate expansion space for the slab to expand when the pavement is
subjected to an increase in temperature.

         A. Hinge Joint
         B. Contraction Joint
         C. Construction Joint
         D. Expansion Joint
         Answer: Expansion Joint

67. Joints placed in concrete pavements, which are usually placed transversely at regular intervals
across the width of the pavement to release some of the tensile stresses that are due to a decrease
in temperature.

         A. Hinge Joint
         B. Contraction Joint
         C. Construction Joint
         D. Expansion Joint
         Answer: Contraction Joint

68. Joints placed in concrete pavements, which are usually placed transversely across the
pavement width to provide suitable transition between concrete placed at different times or on
different days.

         A. Hinge Joint
         B. Contraction Joint
         C. Construction Joint
         D. Expansion Joint
         Answer: Construction Joint

69. It is a type of thermoplastic lane marking designed to aid and provide motorist with visual,
audio, and warning on the road.

         A. Chevron markings
         B. Painted median
         C. Rumble strips
         D. Diagonal markings
         Answer: Rumble strips

70. Markings which are placed on sealed shoulders or other sealed portions of the road where
traffic is not desired.

         A. Chevron markings
         B. Painted median
         C. Rumble strips
         D. Diagonal markings
         Answer: Diagonal markings
71. The time for mixing of ingredients for a concrete cement road should be done for at least:
         A. 2.5 min.
         B. 1.5 min.
         C. 3 min.
         D. 2 min.
         Answer: 1.5 min.

72. How do you test the relative consistency of concrete?
         A. Slump test
         B. Water-cement ratio
         C. aggregate-cement ratio
         D. All of the above
         Answer: Slump test

73. Most important process to prepare concrete:
         A. Water-cement ratio
         B. Batching
         C. Cement-aggregate ratio
         D. Admixture
         Answer: Batching

74. When inside the building, one may notice unusual sounds and change in the building. What
causes these events?

         A. Temperature
         B. Atoms
         C. Ductility
         D. Ions
         Answer: Atoms

75. The basic lane width appropriate for national road is .
         A. 2.40 m
         B. 1.80 m
         C. 3.35 m
         D. 5.00 m
         Answer: 5.00 m

76. Any temporary elevated platform used employees or materials or both in the construction
works.

         A. Formworks for supporting course of any
         B. Framing
         C. Scaffold
         D. Bracing
         Answer: Scaffold

77. What are the capacity requirements for all scaffoldings?
         A. At least 4 times its own weight
         B. At least 6 times its own weight
         C. At most 4 times its own weight
         D. At most 6 times its own weigh
         Answer: At least 4 times its own weight

78. The number of days final curing for a concrete cement pavement is done for:
         A. 21 days
         B. 14 days
         C. 12 days
         D. 18 days
         Answer: 14 days

79. It is defined as the number of vehicles per unit distance occupying a section of roadway at a
given instant time.

         A. Density
         B. Flow
         C. Capacity
         D. Volume
         Answer: Density

80. The number of vehicles moving in a specified direction on a given lane or roadway that pass a
given point during specified unit time.

         A. Traffic Volume
         B. Traffic Density
         C. Traffic Capacity
         D. Basic Capacity
         Answer: Traffic Volume

81. The ability of a roadway to accomodate traffic volume. It is expressed as the maximum number
of vehicle in a lane or a road that can pass a given point in unit time.

         A. Traffic Volume
         B. Traffic Density
         C. Traffic Capacity
         D. Basic Capacity
         Answer: Traffic Capacity

82. The maximum number of passenger cars that can pass a given point on a lane or roadway
during one hour under the most nearly ideal roadway and traffic conditions which can possibly be
attained.

         A. Possible Capacity
         B. Practical Capacity
         C. Traffic Capacity
         D. Basic Capacity
         Answer: Basic Capacity

83. The maximum number of passenger cars that can pass a given point on a lane or roadway
during one hour under prevailing roadway and traffic conditions.
         A. Possible Capacity
         B. Practical Capacity
         C. Traffic Capacity
         D. Basic Capacity
         Answer: Possible Capacity

84. The maximum number of passenger cars that can pass a given point on a lane or roadway
during one hour without traffic density being so great as to cause unreasonable delay, hazard, or
restrictions to the driver's freedom to maneuver under traffic conditions.

         A. Possible Capacity
         B. Practical Capacity
         C. Traffic Capacity
         D. Basic Capacity
         Answer: Practical Capacity

85. Cracks approximately at right angles to the pavement centerline. These may be caused by
shrinkage or differential thermal stress of the asphalt concrete or maybe reflective cracks.

         A. Alligator Cracking
         B. Block Cracking
         C. Transverse Cracking
         D. Longitudinal Cracking
         Answer: Transverse Cracking

86. Cracks approximately parallel to the pavement centerline. These are caused by poorly
constructed construction joints and shrinkage of asphalt concrete surface.

         A. Alligator Cracking
         B. Block Cracking
         C. Transverse Cracking
         D. Longitudinal Cracking
         Answer: Longitudinal Cracking

87. Wearing way of the pavement surface caused by dislodging of aggregated particles and binder.
This is usually a result of insufficient asphalt binder in the mix or stripping of asphalt from
particles of aggregate.

         A. Joint or crack spalling
         B. Bleeding
         C. Flushing
         D. Raveling
         Answer: Raveling

88. Progressive disintegration of the surface between the wheel paths caused by dripping of
gasoline or oil from vehicles.

         A. Spalling
         B. Bleeding
         C. Flushing
         D. Drip Track Raveling
         Answer: Drip Track Raveling

89. The extruding of bitumen onto the pavement surface, causing a reduction in skid resistance. It
is generally caused by excessive amounts of asphalt in the mix or low air voids content. It occurs
when asphalt fills the voids in the mix during hot weather and then exudes out onto the surface of
the pavement.

         A. Spalling
         B. Bleeding or Flushing
         C. Raveling
         D. Abrasion
         Answer: Bleeding or Flushing

90. Elevation differences between adjacent slabs at transverse joints. It is usually the result of
pumping and is a major source of Portland Concrete pavement structure.

         A. Spalling
         B. Bleeding
         C. Faulting
         D. Raveling
         Answer: Faulting

91. Localized upward buckling and shattering of the slabs at transverse joint or cracks. They can
occur when transverse joints are filled with incompressible solid materials.

         A. Blowups
         B. Spalling
         C. Raveling
         D. Faulting
         Answer: Blowups

92. The breakdown or disintegration of slab edges at joints or cracks, usually resulting in the loss
of sound concrete and the progressive widening of joint or crack.

         A. Joint abrasion
         B. Joint spalling
         C. Joint raveling
         D. Joint flushing
         Answer: Joint spalling

93. A series of interconnected or interlaced cracks caused by fatigue failure of the asphalt
concrete surface under repeated traffic loading.

         A. Alligator Cracking
         B. Block Cracking
         C. Transverse Cracking
         D. Longitudinal Cracking
         Answer: Alligator Cracking

94. Cracks forming large interconnected polygons, usually with sharp corners or angle. These
cracks are generally caused by hardening and shrinkage of the asphalt and or reflection cracking
from underlying layers such as cement-treated base.
         A. Alligator Cracking
         B. Block Cracking
         C. Transverse Cracking
         D. Longitudinal Cracking
         Answer: Block Cracking

95. It is the timing of signals in relationship to one another so that vehicles travelling at a
predetermined speed can pass through the greens of successive signals.

         A. Speed of progression
         B. Signal Coordination
         C. Offset of the cycle
         D. Band
         Answer: Signal Coordination

96. The speed at which vehicles are presumed to travel through coordinated signal system is
known as:

         A. Speed of progression
         B. Signal Coordination
         C. Offset of the cycle
         D. Band
         Answer: Speed of progression

97. The time difference between the beginning and end of through band at any point is known as:
         A. indication
         B. through band
         C. cycle
         D. band width
         Answer: band width

98. The red, yellow, or green light that is displayed to driven in a given movement is called an:
         A. indication
         B. through band
         C. cycle
         D. band
         Answer: indication

99. The time required for one complete sequence of signal indication is called .
         A. indication
         B. phase
         C. frequency
         D. cycle
         Answer: cycle

100. The simplest rail capacity problem is that involving rail rapid transit systems. These usually
have the following characteristics: i. One-way operation ii. A common speed profile for all trains.
That is, each train traverses each section of track at the same speed as all other trains;
consequently, trains do not overtake or pass one another. Common station dwell times. That is,
each train spends the same amount of time stopped at each station as all other trains; iii. dwell
times may vary from station to station iv. A fixed minimum front-to-back time gap between trains.

         A. I-III
         B. III only
         C. II and IV only
         D. All of the above
         Answer: All of the above

101. There are three basic ways of resolving crossing conflicts. I. Time sharing solutions II.Space
sharing solutions III.Grade separation solutions IV. Crossing conflict solutions

         A. I-III
         B. III only
         C. II and IV only
         D. All of the above
         Answer: I-III

102. It is the difference between the actual travel time and a given segment of a transportation
system and some ideal travel time for that segment.

         A. Queue Time
         B. Travel Time
         C. Delay
         D. Service Time
         Answer: Delay

103. The time spent in decelerating and accelerating the vehicle in opening and closing doors.
         A. Clearance Time
         B. Dwell Time
         C. Influence Time
         D. Bebe Time
         Answer: Clearance Time

104. Headways such that the vehicles are just filled at the maximum load point on the route.
         A. Policy Headway
         B. Space Headway
         C. Time Headway
         D. Capacity Headway
         Answer: Capacity Headway

105. Poor construction management practices, on the other hand, often result in one or more of
the following: I. Project delays that increase labor and equipment cost and the cost of borrowed
funds. II. High material costs caused by poor purchasing procedures, inefficient handling, and/or
loss. III. Increased subcontractor cost and poor contractor- subcontractor relations. IV. High
insurance costs resulting from material and equipment loss or damage or a poor safety record. V.
Low profit margin or a loss on construction volume.

         A. I, II, IV and V
         B. III and IV only
         C. I, IV and V
         D. All of the above
         Answer: All of the above

106. The action of flattening poured concrete into a smooth, flat layer prior to finishing the surface.
         A. Finishing
         B. Smoothing
         C. Plastering
         D. Screeding
         Answer: Screeding

107. In the measures of congestion of highway capacity, what will happen as the density continues
to increase?

         A. Minimum rate flow is eventually reached
         B. Increase speeds and reduced flow rate
         C. The point is reached at which speed declines noticeably
         D. Running speed and traffic flow is minimum.
         Answer: The point is reached at which speed declines noticeably

108. This view has elevation as its vertical axis and horizontal distance, measured perpendicular to
the centerline, as its horizontal axis.

         A. Profile
         B. Plan View
         C. Geometric Cross-Section
         D. Topographic
         Answer: Geometric Cross-Section

109. It refers to establishment of horizontal and vertical alignments and cross-section, based on
considerations such as operating characteristics of vehicles, design standards and drainage.

         A. Plans
         B. Topographic
         C. Geometric Design
         D. Contouring
         Answer: Geometric Design

110. It refers to the physical or environmental conditions of work or employment, which
substantially comply with the provisions of these Standards.

         A. Approved
         B. Health
         C. Safety
         D. Recognized Hazards
         Answer: Safety

111. Capacity for two-lane highways ranges from:
         A. 1000 to 1500 passenger car equivalents per hour
         B. 1500 to 2000 passenger car equivalents per hour
         C. 2000 to 2800 passenger car equivalents per hour
         D. 2800 to 3000 passenger car equivalents per hour
         Answer: 2000 to 2800 passenger car equivalents per hour

112. The primary consideration in the design of geometric cross sections for highways, runways
and taxiways is .

         A. Elevation
         B. Slope
         C. Drainage
         D. Carriageway
         Answer: Drainage

113. requires installing aluminum hydraulic or other types of supports to prevent soil movement
and cave-ins.

         A. Shoring
         B. Benching
         C. Trenching
         D. Sloping
         Answer: Shoring

114. If the equal sides of an isosceles triangle are given, what length of the third side will provide
maximum area?

         A. equal to the given sides
         B. ss times the length
         C. 2 times the length
         D. s times the length
         Answer: 2 times the length

115. The maximum volume that can be placed in the bucket without spillage based on a specified
angle of repose for the material.

         A. Heaped Volume
         B. Waterline Capacity
         C. Bank Volume
         D. Struck Capacity
         Answer: Heaped Volume

116. Some ways in which productivity can be increased and costs minimized during construction
include the following: i. Good work planning ii. Carefully selecting and training workers and
managers. iii. Efficiently scheduling labor, materials, and equipment iv. v. Properly organizing
work. Using labor saving techniques, such as prefabrication and preassembly. vi. Minimizing
rework through timely quality control vii. Preventing accidents through good safety procedures.

         A. I,II, III, VI and VII
         B. I, IV, VI, VII
         C. I, II, IV, VII
         D. All of the above
         Answer: All of the above

117. Involves dropping a heavy weight from a crane onto the ground surface to achieve soil
densification.

         A. Dynamic Compaction
         B. Soil stabilization
         C. Vibratory Compaction
         D. Dropping Compaction
         Answer: Dynamic Compaction

118. ________ means a method of protecting workers from cave-ins by excavating the sides of an
excavation to form one or a series of horizontal levels or steps, usually with vertical or
near-vertical surfaces between levels.

         A. Shielding
         B. Shoring
         C. Benching
         D. Sloping
         Answer: Benching

119. device mounted on a fixed support (permanent signs) or portable support (temporary signs)
whereby a specific message is conveyed by means of words or symbols placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.

         A. Traffic cone
         B. Traffic Signs
         C. Average speed
         D. Beuforts Scale
         Answer: Traffic Signs

120. signs that inform road users of traffic laws and regulations which, if disregarded, will
constitute an offense.

         A. Regulatory Signs
         B. Pavement Arrows
         C. Derived Utility
         D. Cut or Excavation
         Answer: Regulatory Signs

121. signs that instruct road users to meet certain traffic rule requirements or road condition
         A. Special Instruction Signs
         B. Distance separation
         C. Horizontal tangents
         D. a. Mean Sea Level (MSL)
         Answer: Special Instruction Signs

122. warn road users of condition on or adjacent to the road that may be unexpected or hazardous
         A. Hinge Points
         B. Give Way Line
         C. Cost of borrow
         D. Warning Signs
         Answer: Warning Signs

123. inform and advice road users of directions, distance, routes, the location of services, and
points of interests

         A. Raised Pavement Markers
         B. Single alternate system
         C. Guide Signs (Informative Signs)
         D. Factor of safety or safety factor
         Answer: Guide Signs (Informative Signs)

124. warn or advise of temporary hazardous conditions that could endanger road users or the men
and equipment engaged on roadwork

         A. Hydraulic Jump
         B. Policy Headways
         C. Roadwork Signs
         D. Traverse joint
         Answer: Roadwork Signs

125. signs which provide means of displaying essential traffic information on wide multi- lane
roads, where some degree of lane use control is required, or where side-of-road clearance is
insufficient to accommodate a road side sign

         A. Overhead Signs
         B. No Passing Zone
         C. Road geometry
         D. Object Height
         Answer: Overhead Signs

126. highway appurtenances designed to prevent vehicular penetration from the travel way to
areas behind the barrier such as to minimize damage to impacting vehicles and their occupants,
and to reduce the risk of injuries to pedestrians and workers

         A. Discharge
         B. Plan View
         C. Yielding
         D. Barriers
         Answer: Barriers

127. warning devices used to supplement other controls and devices necessary to alert motorists
of construction and maintenance activities or obstructions in the roadway.

         A. No Passing Zone
         B. Painted Median
         C. Flashing Lamps
         D. Running speed
         Answer: Flashing Lamps

128. light retro-reflecting devices mounted at the side of the roadway, in series, to indicate the
roadway alignment.
         A. Dwell Time

         B. Design Speed

         C. Delineators

         D. Settlement

         Answer: Delineators

129. devices which may be conical in shape or tubular-shaped capable of performing
channelization of traffic which may be set on the surface of the roadway or rigidly attached for
continued use

         A. Basic capacity

         B. Traffic Cones

         C. Block cracking

         D. Running speed

         Answer: Traffic Cones

130. roadwork devices consisting of pre-cast concrete sections, sandbag, and others which, may
be used to guide traffic at the construction site.

         A. Asphatic Concrete

         B. Grade separation

         C. Temporary Curbing

         D. Over consolidated

         Answer: Temporary Curbing

131. device used in place of rigid barrier posts or traffic cones with a minimum of 450 mm by 50
mm wide with alternate bands of contrasting color as seen by approaching traffic for delineation of
traffic. The standard colors for signs are as follows: Red is used as a background for STOP signs,
as border color on GIVE WAY signs, warning signs and prohibitive signs in the regulatory type.
Black is used as legend color for signs having white, yellow, orange, fluorescent orange,
fluorescent yellow green background and as chevron for hazard makers. Yellow is used as
background color for road signs. White is the background color for most signs and legends for
some colored background. Fluorescent Yellow Green is used as background color for signs
related to pedestrian movement, school zones, and road work hazard markers to give additional
emphasis and guidance to vehicle operators. Fluorescent Orange is used as background color for
roadwork signs whose legends relate to personal working. Green is used as background color for
direction signs. Blue is used as background color for service signs. Brown is reserved as
background color for all tourist facility directional and information signs. Classifications of signs
Signs are classified in the following groups according to their use. Regulatory Signs Warning
Signs Guide Signs or Informative Sign Signs for Expressways Signs for Special Purposes Hazard
Markers Uniformity of application is as important as standardization with respect to design and
placement. Identical conditions should always be treated with the same type of signs so that road
users can readily anticipate the course of action required. To be effective, the road sign should
meet the five basic requirements: Fulfill a need Command attention Convey a clear, simple
message Command respect; and Give adequate time for proper response It should be noted that
when all sign rules have been followed, some visual judgment must be exercised in adjusting sign
elements. The following general rules are to be applied when designing the sign face. Cramping of
legend is to be avoided; Avoid large areas of blank panel, particularly blank areas not
symmetrically disposed across the panel; If there are two list of legends side by side (e.g., as
onReassurance Signs) it is necessary to left justify the left list and right justify the right list; and,
Elements such as arrows and symbols may sometimes have to be larger than the principal legend
would normally require. For example, an arrow relates to several lines of legends on a direction
sign Classification of Regulatory Signs Priority Signs Direction Signs Prohibitive or Restrictive
Signs Review Innovations

         A. Flexible Post or Bollard

         B. Traffic-responsive systems

         C. Overburden pressure

         D. Single Unbroken Yellow Line

         Answer: Flexible Post or Bollard

132. speed limit between 60 and 70 kph; Size C for high speed rural highways' multi-lane urban
roads Size D for Expressways Classification of Warning Signs Horizontal Alignment Signs
Intersection and Junction Signs Advance Warning of Traffic Control Device Signs Road Width
Signs Road Obstacle Signs Pedestrian and School Signs Railway Level Crossing Supplementary
Signs Other Warning Signs Signs in Directional Signing series are usually classified into four
categories: Those installed in advance of the intersection. Those installed at the intersection.
Those on departure from the intersection. Those installed on expressways. Classification of Guide
Signs Advance Direction Sign Intersection Direction Sign Reassurance Direction Sign Finger
Board Direction Sign Street Name Signs Town Name and Geographical Feature Signs Service
Signs Tourist Information and Tourist Destination Signs Route Markers One-Way hazard markers
indicate to the approaching driver the direction to be followed if the marker appears in the driving
path. They may point to the left or right as appropriate and are used as follows: To delineate an
abrupt narrowing of pavement, for example, at a lane drop; At exposed ends of raised median
islands where traffic is required to pass to one side; On central island of a roundabout facing
entering traffic; and To delineate the curve approach just prior to entering an intersection.
Pavement markings have definite limitations: They are subject to traffic wear and require proper
maintenance; They may not be clearly visible if the road is wet or dusty; They may be obscured by
traffic; Their effect on skid resistance requires careful choice of materials; and They cannot be
applied on unsealed roads. The elements to consider when planning Expressways are: No
frontage access; Development set well back from the highway; Grade separated intersections for
extremely high flows and other intersecting expressways; Number of intersections to be
minimized and Where necessary or for emergency purposes, parking/stopping to be provided
clear of the main carriageway. The elements to consider when planning National Roads are:
Limited frontage access Development set well back from the highway All access to premises
provided via provincial roads Number of intersections to be minimized Suitable at-grade
channelized intersections for minor flows and other elements No roadside vendors Color of
Pavement Markings The color of pavement markings shall be white except for the alternative uses
of yellow as specified below: Double yellow no-passing lines; Unbroken portion of no-passing
lines; Curb markings for prohibition of parking; On islands in line of traffic; Bus and PUJ lanes;
and, Keep Intersection Open markings Red shall be used in: No Loading/Unloading Zone; and Fire
lane zone Design Speed The choice of an appropriate design speed for a road project is important
to ensure a safe design. When choosing a design speed, the following factors need to be
considered: Function of the road Anticipated operating speed Anticipated speed limit Warrants for
Marking Center Lines A center line may be marked on an urban or rural road if one or more of the
following conditions are met: Two lane road (greater than 6 m in width) carrying an Annual
Average Daily Traffic (ADT) in excess of 1000 vehicles; Two lane road (less than 6 m but more than
5 m in width) carrying an ADT in excess of 300 vehicles; and Winding roads with widths of 5 m or
more. Review Innovations

         A. elsewhere on two and three

         B. Size B for rural roads

         C. Hydraulic grade line

         D. b. Transverse Lines
         Answer: Size B for rural roads

133. to stop or to change direction The provision of safety sight distance depends on the
characteristics of the vehicle such as:

         A. Actions available to the driver
         B. Active earth pressure coefficient
         C. Loading and Unloading Bay Lane Line
         D. Plain concrete pavement
         Answer: Actions available to the driver

134. car or truck Friction between the tire and the road Eye height of the driver Speed of vehicles
The provision of safety sight distance depends on the characteristics of the road environment
such as:

         A. Traffic capacity
         B. Vertical curve
         C. Type of vehicle
         D. Basic capacity
         Answer: Type of vehicle

135. grade and curvature sight limitations
         A. Surface polish
         B. Object Height
         C. Road surface
         D. Road geometry
         Answer: Road geometry

136. sealed or unsealed, smooth or rough Road illumination at night Each type of sight distance
consists of three elements: Driver Eye Height Object Height Sight Distance There are two
components in stopping sight distance:

         A. Microscopic
         B. Time sharing
         C. Storm Surge
         D. Road surface
         Answer: Road surface

137. the distance traveled while the driver perceives a hazard, decides to take action, then acts by
starting to apply the brakes to start slowing down; and

         A. Diagonal Markings
         B. Reaction distance
         C. Temporary Curbing
         D. Absolute Pressure
         Answer: Reaction distance

138. the distance required for the vehicle to slow down and stop Four different criteria used for the
establishment of sag vertical curves: Headlight sight distance Passenger comfort Drainage control
General appearance PPA has used MLLW as the datum line for design of port facilities in
accordance with charts. But there are many ports of which low tide go down very often below
MLLW. For instance: (Port Cebu) According to the tide table (1991) of NAMRIA, the frequency of
tide below MLLW is 213 times/year and the maximum amount of the value is -0.51 m. Under this
condition it is dangerous for ships to utilize the port. Shoulder paving is a valuable method of
providing: Integrity of the pavement Width to place edgeline pavement markings Additional safety
to prevent vehicles skidding or drivers losing control in gravel. Low maintenance costs compared
with unpaved shoulders Element of Berthing Facility: Planned Water Depth Design Water Depth
Coping/Crown Elevation

         A. Braking distance

         B. Weaving conflicts

         C. Skid resistance

         D. Mooring dolphins

         Answer: Braking distance

139. Standard Part, Approach Part Width of Apron Slope of Apron There are four types of escape
ramps: Sand Pile Descending Grade Horizontal Grade Ascending Grade Types of intersections
that generally exist on the road network are: Unflared and unchannelized intersections (without
widening or traffic islands) Flared and unchannelized intersections (with widening but without
traffic islands) and Channelized intersections (traffic islands to guide traffic) Principles of good
design to reduce the likelihood of traffic accidents include: Minimize the speed of vehicles at
potential collision points Review Innovations

         A. Pascal

         B. Shear

         C. Period

         D. Length

         Answer: Length

140. which are those laid in the direction of travel. These include:

         A. Pavement deflection

         B. a. Longitudinal Lines

         C. Joint or crack spailling

         D. Archimedes Principle

         Answer: a. Longitudinal Lines

141. used to separate opposite traffic movements of an undivided roadway and is generally placed
centrally on all roads and bridges 6.0 m or more in width. A center line may be marked on an urban
or rural road if one or more of the following conditions are met: - Two lane road (greater than 6 m
in width) carrying an annual average daily traffic (ADT) in excess of 1000 vehicles; - Two lane road
(less than 6 m but more than 5 m in width) carrying an ADT in excess of 300 vehicles; and, -
Winding roads with widths of 5 m or more. Irrespective of these warrants, marking of other
sections may be desirable where one of the following conditions is present: - Frequent horizontal
or vertical curves, or both; - Sub-standard curves; - In areas subject to fog; - On approaches to
major roads; - Where accident record indicates the need for center lines; - Continuity of arterial
road; and, - Heavy night traffic or tourist traffic, or both.

         A. Center Line

         B. Design Speed

         C. Sea island

         D. Plain view

         Answer: Center Line
142. broken lines used to separate adjacent lanes of traffic moving in the same direction. Lane
Lines must not be continued on the following cases: - Across signalized intersections. However,
lane lines of low priority road must be discontinued at the intersection; - Across side street
entrances unless the street is one-way street (going in only); - Past the start of the taper at which a
multi-lane road narrows down. Barrier Lines may consist of either:

         A. Raveling
         B. Plain view
         C. Interval
         D. Lane Line
         Answer: Lane Line

143. should only be used where overtaking from both directions of the road and all crossing
movements are prohibited.

         A. Do Not Block Intersection' Lines
         B. Double Unbroken Yellow Line
         C. Facility oriented organization
         D. Right Turn Slip Lanes
         Answer: Double Unbroken Yellow Line

144. should be used where overtaking from both directions of the road are prohibited. However,
crossing movements are permitted. Single Yellow Line with a Broken White

         A. Intergranular Stress
         B. Active earth pressure coefficient
         C. Loading/Unloading Restrictions
         D. Single Unbroken Yellow Line
         Answer: Single Unbroken Yellow Line

145. combinations of an unbroken yellow line and a white separation line have the same regulatory
significance as a double unbroken yellow line for vehicles proceeding in the direction where the
unbroken yellow line appears on the right of the markings, but vehicles traveling in the other
direction are permitted to cross this line. The following are the cases where barrier lines should be
used: - As center lines on approaches to signalized intersections; - As center lines of multi-lane
roads where overtaking must be prohibited, because of sight restrictions; - `No-Passing' zones
where there is a restricted sight distance due to horizontal or vertical curves, or both; - As center
lines on approaches to railway crossings.

         A. Line
         B. Wind
         C. Cycle
         D. Period
         Answer: Line

146. shall be established at vertical and horizontal curves and Review Innovations
         A. No Passing Zone
         B. Breaking waves
         C. Flashing Lamps
         D. Queue Discipline
         Answer: No Passing Zone
147. lane highways, where passing must be prohibited because of dangerously restricted sight
distance or other hazardous conditions.

         A. elsewhere on two and three
         B. Velocity of wave propagation
         C. Bleeding or flushing
         D. Special Instruction Signs
         Answer: elsewhere on two and three

148. used to delineate the edge of the traveled way to distinguish it from the shoulder area. It
should be a solid white line between 100 mm and 200 mm wide. Studs or raised pavement markers
may be used in conjunction with edge lines where there are paved shoulders. The purpose of
installing edge lines is generally based on the following: - To discourage travel on road shoulders;
- To make driving safer and more assured, particularly at night and during inclement weather by
providing continuous guide for the driver; - To act as a guide past objects which are close to the
edge of pavement and which constitute a hazard; - To prevent parking at or near intersections.

         A. Time Gaps
         B. Edge Line
         C. Interval
         D. Toughness
         Answer: Edge Line

149. used to indicate that portion of a carriageway assigned to through traffic. It is intended to be
crossed by traffic turning at an intersection, or entering or leaving an auxiliary lane at its start or
finish.

         A. Major head loss
         B. Vertical curve
         C. No Passing Zone
         D. Continuity Line
         Answer: Continuity Line

150. used to guide traffic safely past obstructions on roadways such as islands, median strips,
bridge piers or indicate changes in the width of the traveled portion of the roadway and an
increase or reduction in traffic lanes.

         A. Wave refraction
         B. Reaction distance
         C. Transition Lines
         D. Diagonal Markings
         Answer: Transition Lines

151. which are laid across the direction of travel. These include:
         A. Distance separation
         B. b. Transverse Lines
         C. Crossing conflicts
         D. Merging conflicts
         Answer: b. Transverse Lines
152. indicates the position beyond which the vehicles should not proceed when required by
control devices like signals or by traffic police.

         A. Barriers
         B. Delineator
         C. Stop Line
         D. Elevation
         Answer: Stop Line

153. markings consisting of a two adjacent broken white lines across the carriageway at which
drivers must give way to all traffic. Pedestrian Crossing Markings

         A. Breaking waves
         B. Give Way Line
         C. Traffic cone
         D. Basic capacity
         Answer: Give Way Line

154. consists of series of longitudinal bars. The bars are placed parallel to the road center line with
gaps of equal width to the bar. Crosswalks (signalized crossing) - defined by a pair of solid white
lines across the road surface. They should be used in conjunction with mid-block or intersection
signals.

         A. Zebra (non-signalized crossing)
         B. Velocity of wave propagation
         C. Right Turn Slip Lanes
         D. Superelevation diagram
         Answer: Zebra (non-signalized crossing)

155. holding lines at roundabouts shall consist of broken reflectorized white line. The leading edge
of the holding line forms a prolongation of the curb and the painted outline of the traffic island on
the approach. c. Other Lines

         A. Superelevation diagram
         B. Magnitude of earthquake
         C. Reciprocal of stiffness
         D. Roundabout Holding Lines
         Answer: Roundabout Holding Lines

156. may be used to guide vehicles through a turning movement at intersections. Turn lines, if
used, should be so designed as to indicate the proper course for turning vehicles without being
needlessly confusing to through traffic or the traffic making other turns.

         A. Resilience
         B. Homogenous
         C. Turn Lines
         D. Delineators
         Answer: Turn Lines

157. there are two types of parking bays: parallel parking and angle parking.
         A. Parking Bay Lines
         B. Vertical alignment
         C. Asphatic Concrete
         D. Relative Pressure
         Answer: Parking Bay Lines

158. painted median islands are used on wide roads where light traffic volume cannot justify the
installation of solid curbed median island.

         A. Continuity Line
         B. Derived Utility
         C. Traffic volume
         D. Painted Median
         Answer: Painted Median

159. an unbroken yellow line used to separate other vehicles from buses and PUJ's.
         A. Breasting dolphins
         B. Bus and PUJ Lane line
         C. Horizontal Control
         D. Joint or crack spailling
         Answer: Bus and PUJ Lane line

160. an unbroken white line used to indicate the proper location of loading and unloading zone of
public utility vehicles preferably with parking restriction.

         A. Loading and Unloading Bay Lane Line
         B. Bus and PUJ Lane line
         C. b. Transverse Lines
         D. elsewhere on two and three
         Answer: Loading and Unloading Bay Lane Line

161. consist of yellow box within the intersection and yellow diagonal lines forming an `X' inside
the box. d. Other Markings Approach Markings to Islands and

         A. b. Mean Low Water (MWL)
         B. Triple alternate system
         C. Do Not Block Intersection' Lines
         D. Traffic-responsive systems
         Answer: Do Not Block Intersection' Lines

162. diagonal marking on approaches to obstructions and median islands shall consist of a
splayed line or lines extending from the center of lane line to a point to the right side or to both
sides, of the approach end of the obstruction.

         A. Slobing robe
         B. Delineators
         C. Obstructions
         D. Gravity waves
         Answer: Obstructions

163. often used to guide traffic into the right turning lanes separated by an island, such as a corner
island at a signalized intersection.
         A. Exit Ramp Marking
         B. Pavement Arrows
         C. Chevron Markings
         D. Major head loss
         Answer: Chevron Markings

164. are placed on a sealed shoulders or other sealed portion of the road where traffic is not
desired. Review Innovations

         A. Diagonal Markings
         B. Geometric Design
         C. Horizontal Control
         D. Transition curves
         Answer: Diagonal Markings

165. a type of thermoplastic lane marking designed to aid and provide motorists with visual, audio
and motion warnings on the road. Rumble strips are highly visible horizontal lines on the road that
produce a humming sound and ample bumpy ride to the motorists when ran over. It promotes
better traffic safety because it stimulates more the human sense while driving. Marking on Exit and
Entrance Ramps of Expressways

         A. Rumble Strips
         B. Average speed
         C. Profile grade
         D. Obstructions
         Answer: Rumble Strips

166. a solid line shall be placed along the sides of the triangular neutral area between the edges of
the main roadway and the exit ramp lane at the gore of every ramp terminal.

         A. Pavement roughness
         B. Space-time diagram
         C. Exit Ramp Marking
         D. Releiving platform
         Answer: Exit Ramp Marking

167. a solid white line shall be placed along the side of the triangular neutral area adjacent to the
ramp lane at the gore of every entrance ramp terminal. Curb Markings for Parking and

         A. Size B for rural roads
         B. Mixed diurnal tides
         C. Entrance Ramp Marking
         D. Signal Coordination
         Answer: Entrance Ramp Marking

168. The curb markings for parking restrictions shall be of solid yellow color, covering the face of
the curb. Such markings are usually supplemented by parking prohibition signs to indicate the
extent of the area where parking is legally prohibited at all times. On the other hand, curb markings
for loading/unloading restrictions shall be of solid red color applied in the same manner as with
parking restrictions. Approach to Railroad Crossing - Pavement markings consisting of a cross,
the letters RR, a `No Passing' zone marking, and a double solid stop bar shall be placed on all
paved approaches to level or at-grade railroad crossing. Such markings shall be white except the
NO PASSING barrier line which shall be yellow.

         A. Actions available to the driver
         B. Trip Assignment Models
         C. Archimedes Principle
         D. Loading/Unloading Restrictions
         Answer: Loading/Unloading Restrictions

169. the symbol used to supplement the give way sign consists of an isosceles triangle.
         A. Grade separation
         B. Minor head loss
         C. Painted Median
         D. Give Way Symbol
         Answer: Give Way Symbol

170. are white in color, used for lane use control.
         A. Space mean speed
         B. Clearance Time
         C. Derived Utility
         D. Pavement Arrows
         Answer: Pavement Arrows

171. The only numerals that should be used are those associated with speed limits at locations to
supplement speed limit signs which are continuously disregarded by drivers or which are
obscured and cannot be read easily.

         A. Numerals
         B. Plan View
         C. Wind rose
         D. Drainage
         Answer: Numerals

172. small devices which are fixed to the concrete pavement surface to stimulate or supplement
painted pavement markings. Because of the high cost of installation and maintenance, use of
raised pavement markers may be considered only in the following conditions: - In hilly areas
where fog and rain are frequently the causes of traffic accidents; and, - In winding roads and
accident-prone areas. Review Innovations

         A. Shallow water waves
         B. Raised Pavement Markers
         C. Signal Coordination
         D. Drip track raveling
         Answer: Raised Pavement Markers

173. the observed eye height of a driver; -
         A. Space-time diagram
         B. Driver Eye Height
         C. Parking Bay Lines
         D. Breasting dolphins
         Answer: Driver Eye Height

174. a possible object in the path of a vehicle; -
         A. Traffic Signs
         B. Object Height
         C. Rail Anchors
         D. Beuforts Scale
         Answer: Object Height

175. dependent on design speed and vehicle type. It is a major road safety design control when
determining the horizontal and vertical geometric alignment for a new or rehabilitation design.
Stopping Sight Distance There are two components in stopping sight distance: -

         A. Mean free speed
         B. Sight Distance
         C. Continuity Line
         D. Perception time
         Answer: Sight Distance

176. a vectoral speed of convergence of the vehicles in a conflict maneuver. Low relative speed
conditions at intersections can be obtained by: - Choosing a layout where conflicting movements
cross at angles less than or equal to 90 degrees; - Providing a layout or alignment that slows down
approaching vehicles; and - Providing deceleration lanes. Turning Lanes Provision for turning
lanes can generally be provided in the following ways: - Shared turning and through lane; - Flaring
and taper; or - Separate lane for deceleration and storage

         A. Mean free speed
         B. Traffic Signs
         C. Specifications
         D. Relative Speed
         Answer: Relative Speed

177. provided to minimize the delays for right turning vehicles and to make the right turn
movement easier and safer. A traffic island is provided with this treatment to: - Guide traffic into
defined paths; - Separate through, turning and opposing traffic movements; - Give advance
warning of the intersection to approaching drivers; - Provide refuge for pedestrians; and - Prohibit
undesirable or unnecessary traffic movements

         A. Longitudinal cracking
         B. Immediate water waves
         C. Right Turn Slip Lanes
         D. Crossing conflicts
         Answer: Right Turn Slip Lanes

178. consists of a circular island in the middle of an intersection and traffic moves around it in an
anticlockwise direction. Roundabouts may be appropriate in the following situations: - At
intersections with high accident rate; - When physical control of speed is desirable; - When the
flow on each approach are balanced and capacity analysis indicates that volumes can be
managed; - When the volume of left turners is significant; Review Innovations

         A. Tidal bores
         B. Roundabouts
         C. Time Points
         D. Settlement
         Answer: Roundabouts

179. provides a balance between recovery area for every errant vehicle, the cost of providing that
area, and the probability of an errant vehicle encountering a hazard. Roadside and Median Safety
Barriers The warrant for the use of safety barriers can be established considering: - Fore slope or
back slope steepness and height; - Unforgiving hazards within the clear zone; and - Water hazard
within the clear zone.

         A. Breakwater
         B. Clear Zone
         C. Tack coat
         D. Elasticity
         Answer: Clear Zone

180. A protected water area to provide safe and suitable accommodation for ships for the transfer
of cargo, refueling, repairs, etc. Harbors may be subdivided into: a. Natural harbors: harbors
protected from storms and waves by the natural consguration of the land. b. Semi-natural harbors:
harbors with both natural and artiscial protection. c. Artiscial harbors: harbors protected from the
effect of waves by means of breakwaters, or harbors created by dredging.

         A. Merging
         B. Flow
         C. Bollard
         D. Harbor
         Answer: Harbor

181. A sheltered place where the ship may receive or discharge cargo. It includes the harbor with
its approach channels and anchorage places. Ports may be subdivided into: a. Ocean ports: ports
located on coasts, tidal estuaries or river mouths where the port can be reached directly by
ocean-going ships. b. Inland waterway ports: ports located on navigable rivers, channels and
lakes.

         A. Shear
         B. Berth
         C. Port
         D. Column
         Answer: Port

182. a navigable channel in a harbor, offshore etc; the usual course taken by vessels in such
places.

         A. Clapotis
         B. a. Wharf
         C. Fairway
         D. Moonson
         Answer: Fairway

183. A place where the ship can moor. In the case of a quay or jetty structure, it will include the
section of the structure where labor, equipment and cargo move to and from the ship.
         A. Base
         B. Gates
         C. Berth
         D. Weir
         Answer: Berth

184. An artiscial landing place for the loading and unloading of ships. Berth structures can be
subdivided into:

         A. Poisson's Ratio
         B. Berth structure
         C. Type of vehicle
         D. Hydraulic Jump
         Answer: Berth structure

185. A continuous structure built parallel to along the margin of the sea or alongside riverbanks,
canals, or waterways where vessels may lie alongside to receive or discharge cargo, embark or
disembark passengers or lie at rest.

         A. a. Wharf
         B. Occupancy
         C. Steepness
         D. Pavement
         Answer: a. Wharf

186. this term can be substituted to wharf when applied to great solid structures in large ports. In
stability calculation of gravity type quaywall, the following matters should be examined: (a) Sliding
of the wall (b) Bearing capacity of foundation (c) Overturning of the wall (d) Circular slip and
settlement

         A. Trip
         B. Numerals
         C. Quay
         D. Phase
         Answer: Quay

187. Any structure built into the sea but not parallel to the coastline and includes any stage, stair
landing place, landing stage jetty, floating barge, and pontoon, any bridge or other works
connected there with.

         A. Merging
         B. Yielding
         C. b. Pier
         D. Fairway
         Answer: b. Pier

188. a landing stage or small pier at which boats can dock or be moored. c. Dolphin: a berth
structure for mooring the ship on the open sea; An isolated piled or gravity structure used either to
maneuver a ship or to facilitate holding it in position at its berth.

         A. Quay
         B. Jetty
         C. Swell
         D. Pier
         Answer: Jetty

189. a type of dock consisting of a rectangular basin dug into the shore of a body of water and
provided with a removable enclosure wall or gate on the side toward the water, used for major
repairs and overhaul of vessels. Review Innovations

         A. Dry Dock
         B. Amplitude
         C. Profile
         D. Elevation
         Answer: Dry Dock

190. is the average of the sea water surface for all stages of the tide over a 19-year period.
         A. Limit of Economic Haul
         B. Signal Coordination
         C. a. Mean Sea Level (MSL)
         D. Geoemtric cross section
         Answer: a. Mean Sea Level (MSL)

191. is the height of the low water over a 19-year period.
         A. Operating organization
         B. Water bound macadam
         C. Flexible Post or Bollard
         D. b. Mean Low Water (MWL)
         Answer: b. Mean Low Water (MWL)

192. is the average height of the lower low waters over a 19-year period.
         A. Hydraulic grade line
         B. c. Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW)
         C. Guide Signs (Informative Signs)
         D. Geoemtric cross section
         Answer: c. Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW)

193. is the average height of the high waters over a 19-year period. e. Mean Higher High Water
(MHHW) - is the average height of the higher high water over a 19-year period. Storm Surge is
abnormal rise of the sea level that occurs when a typhoon passes by. This rise above normal level
on this open coast is due to atmosphere pressure reduction as well as that due to wind stress.
Tsunamis are wave with an extremely long period that mainly occur when there is a sudden
large-scale sea floor movement usually associated severe, shallow focus earthquake. Review
Innovations

         A. d. Mean High Water (MHW)
         B. Signal Coordination
         C. Operating organization
         D. Double alternate system
         Answer: d. Mean High Water (MHW)
194. wherever the existing ground is above the constructed section.
         A. Vertical alignment
         B. Cut or Excavation
         C. Braking distance
         D. Absolute Pressure
         Answer: Cut or Excavation

195. wherever the existing ground is below the constructed section, the construction is said to
involve -

         A. Braking distance
         B. Fill or Embankment
         C. Actual displacement
         D. Parking Bay Lines
         Answer: Fill or Embankment

196. points at which the cut or fill slopes intersect the existing ground.
         A. Delineators
         B. Road geometry
         C. Catch Points
         D. Lag distance
         Answer: Catch Points

197. points at which the cut or fill slopes intersect the nearly horizontal roadway surface
         A. Water hammer
         B. Hinge Points
         C. Wave height
         D. Swells Waves
         Answer: Hinge Points

198. graph of cumulative volume of earthwork versus distance in stations from the beginning of
the job, in which cut is considered to be positive and fill negative.

         A. Eccentricity
         B. Storm Surge
         C. Intellection
         D. Mass Diagram
         Answer: Mass Diagram

199. product of a volume of material times the average distance it is hauled.
         A. Haul
         B. Port
         C. Numerals
         D. Moonson
         Answer: Haul

200. longest distance material should ever be hauled.
         A. Space-time diagram
         B. Limit of Economic Haul
         C. Embedment depth (D)
         D. Magnitude of earthquake
         Answer: Limit of Economic Haul

201. refers to establishment of horizontal and vertical alignments and cross section, based on
considerations such as operating characteristics of vehicles, design standards, and drainage

         A. Roadwork Signs
         B. Space mean speed
         C. Geometric Design
         D. Mooring dolphins
         Answer: Geometric Design

202. the distance required to see an object 0.15 m high on the roadway.
         A. Stopping Sight Distance
         B. Limit of Economic Haul
         C. Reciprocal of deflection
         D. Passing Sight Distance
         Answer: Stopping Sight Distance

203. the distance required to see an oncoming vehicle of a certain minimum size.
         A. Torsional Shear Stress
         B. Bus and PUJ Lane line
         C. Passing Sight Distance
         D. pattern is red-red
         Answer: Passing Sight Distance

204. defined as the maximum safe speed that can be maintained over a specified section of
highway when conditions are so favorable that the design features of the highway govern.

         A. Tidal bores
         B. Design Speed
         C. Laminar Flow
         D. Traffic Signs
         Answer: Design Speed

205. refers to drawings, usually accompanied by notes, of various aspects or components of the
design.

         A. Plans
         B. Orifice
         C. Phase
         D. Weir
         Answer: Plans

206. these are written instructions detailing how the facility is to be constructed.
         A. Embankment Dam
         B. Specifications
         C. Roadwork Signs
         D. Type of vehicle
         Answer: Specifications

207. It include cost estimates for various parts of the project and are used to evaluate the
acceptability of bids and the financial feasibility of the project.

         A. Guide sign
         B. Elevation
         C. Estimates
         D. Barriers
         Answer: Estimates

208. a drawing of the facility as it would look to an observer directly above it.
         A. Batching
         B. Screeding
         C. Viscosity
         D. Plan View
         Answer: Plan View

209. this drawing has elevation as its vertical axis, and horizontal distance, as measured along the
centerline of the facility, as its horizontal axis.

         A. Pavement
         B. Tee head
         C. Weaving
         D. Profile
         Answer: Profile

210. When such motion takes place along a single linear facility such as a roadway or a railway, it
can often be represented by a graph known as _______________.

         A. Traverse cracking
         B. Space-time diagram
         C. Diagonal Markings
         D. Alligator cracking
         Answer: Space-time diagram

211. It may be defined as the difference between the actual travel time on a given segment of a
transportation system and some ideal travel time for that segment.

         A. Delay
         B. Bitt
         C. Trip
         D. Harbor
         Answer: Delay

212. The difference between A(t) and D(t) represents aircraft that have arrived at the runway but
have not begun (or completed) their takeoffs. These lines of aircraft waiting to be served is called a
_________.

         A. Density
         B. Dam
         C. Fairway
         D. Queue
         Answer: Queue

213. defined as the number of vehicles per unit time passing a point in space, and is usually
expressed in vehicles per hour.

         A. Line
         B. Moonson
         C. Nozzle
         D. Flow
         Answer: Flow

214. number of vehicles counted in a specified time interval.
         A. Column
         B. Turbine
         C. Length
         D. Volume
         Answer: Volume

215. measured between common points on successive vehicles.
         A. Flow Line
         B. Headways
         C. Flexible
         D. Blowups
         Answer: Headways

216. measured from the rear of one vehicle to the front of the next.
         A. Delineator
         B. Guide sign
         C. Time Gaps
         D. Steepness
         Answer: Time Gaps

217. defined as the fraction of time that vehicles are present at a point in space.
         A. Diverging
         B. Lane Line
         C. Pavement
         D. Occupancy
         Answer: Occupancy

218. the red, yellow, or green light that is displayed to drivers in a given movement.
         A. Bathymetry
         B. Indication
         C. Spot speed
         D. Time Points
         Answer: Indication

219. The time required for one complete sequence of signal indications.
         A. Cycle
         B. Period
         C. Pascal
         D. Swell
         Answer: Cycle

220. discrete portion of a cycle during which the indications do not change.
         A. Tee head
         B. Interval
         C. Gage Bars
         D. Drainage
         Answer: Interval

221. portion of the cycle during which the movements with the right-of-way do not change.
         A. Queue
         B. Phase
         C. Flow
         D. Swell
         Answer: Phase

222. the timing of signals in relationship to one another so that vehicles traveling at a
predetermined speed can pass through the greens of successive signals.

         A. Hydraulic grade line
         B. Maximum free speed
         C. Signal Coordination
         D. Atmospheric pressure
         Answer: Signal Coordination

223. speed at which vehicles are presumed to travel through the coordinated Review Innovations
         A. Speed Progression
         B. Temporary Curbing
         C. Queue Discipline
         D. Geometric Design
         Answer: Speed Progression

224. time difference between beginning and end of the through band at any point.
         A. Tidal bores
         B. Band Width
         C. Sub grade
         D. Refraction
         Answer: Band Width
225. The time difference between the beginnings of the greens at any two signals.
         A. Exit Ramp Marking
         B. Offset of the Cycle
         C. Driver Eye Height
         D. Water bound macadam
         Answer: Offset of the Cycle

226. each signal displays the phase opposite that of the adjacent signals; thus the pattern, looking
down the street at any instant of time, is red-green-red-green.

         A. Raised Pavement Markers
         B. Intergranular Stress
         C. Single alternate system
         D. Drip track raveling
         Answer: Single alternate system

227. phases at two intersections are grouped together, so that the
         A. Pavement deflection
         B. Ultimate bearing capacity
         C. Double alternate system
         D. Reciprocal of stiffness
         Answer: Double alternate system

228. green-green-red-red.
         A. Asphatic Concrete
         B. Pore water pressure
         C. pattern is red-red
         D. Vertical alignment
         Answer: pattern is red-red

229. It groups three intersections and produce a pattern of red-red- red-green-green-green.
         A. Embedment depth (D)
         B. Entrance Ramp Marking
         C. Triple alternate system
         D. Geoemtric cross section
         Answer: Triple alternate system

230. Employing minimum cycles are usually sufficient for platoon-breakup metering.
         A. Regulatory Signs
         B. Speed Progression
         C. Embedment depth (D)
         D. Fixed-time Systems
         Answer: Fixed-time Systems

231. May respond to volumes measured upstream of the ramp, occupancies measured upstream of
the ramp, occupancies measured downstream of the ramp, or some combinations of these.

         A. Do Not Block Intersection' Lines
         B. Traffic-responsive systems
         C. Immediate water waves
         D. Fixed mooring berth
         Answer: Traffic-responsive systems

232. The time spent in decelerating and accelerating the vehicle and in opening and closing the
doors.

         A. Give Way Symbol
         B. Policy Headways
         C. Object Height
         D. Clearance Time
         Answer: Clearance Time

233. The time spent loading and unloading passengers.
         A. Dwell Time
         B. Diffraction
         C. Microscopic
         D. Drag Force
         Answer: Dwell Time

234. Route schedules, or timetables, give the times that successive bused pass points called
_______.

         A. Wave period
         B. Consistency
         C. Time Points
         D. Clear Zone
         Answer: Time Points

235. considered to be the basic unit of travel behavior. It also involves movement from a single
origin to a single destination, and are usually described in terms of their origins, destinations,
purposed, times of occurrence, travel modes, and routes.

         A. Harbor
         B. Trip
         C. Bitt
         D. Dam
         Answer: Trip

236. this means that the utility of any particular trip is partially dependent on the activity it makes
possible, and the way in which that activity is valued by the individual.

         A. Wearing Surface
         B. Derived Utility
         C. Wearing coarse
         D. Specifications
         Answer: Derived Utility

237. intended to predict the number of travelers using various routes and, hence, the traffic on the
links of a transportation network.
         A. Trip Assignment Models
         B. Space-time diagram
         C. Distance separation
         D. pattern is red-red
         Answer: Trip Assignment Models

238. So far, no explicit consideration has been given to the relationship between the order in which
customers arrive demanding service and the order in which they are served. This relationship is
referred to as the

         A. Temporary Curbing
         B. Queue Discipline
         C. Poisson's Ratio
         D. Diagonal Markings
         Answer: Queue Discipline

239. Headways such that the vehicles are just filled at the maximum load point on the route.
         A. Crossing conflicts
         B. Cut or Excavation
         C. Capacity Headways
         D. Grade separation
         Answer: Capacity Headways

240. Arbitrarily determined maximum headways intended to represent the minimum acceptable
standard for frequency of service.

         A. Block cracking
         B. Policy Headways
         C. Time mean speed
         D. Skid resistance
         Answer: Policy Headways

241. used to fasten rails together longitudinally.
         A. Joint Bars
         B. Plan View
         C. Drag Force
         D. Elevation
         Answer: Joint Bars

242. Steel bars used to maintain gage (that is, horizontal separation between the rails) at critical
locations such as curves and switches.

         A. Wind rose
         B. Plain view
         C. Isotropic
         D. Gage Bars
         Answer: Gage Bars

243. used to resist the longitudinal motion of rails relative to ties.
         A. Gravity waves
         B. Rail Anchors
         C. Wave length
         D. Highest wave
         Answer: Rail Anchors

244. a series of interconnected of interfaced cracks caused by fatigue failure of the asphalt
concrete surface under repeated traffic loading

         A. Equipotential line
         B. Horizontal Control
         C. Semi diurnal tides
         D. Alligator cracking
         Answer: Alligator cracking

245. the height between the trough and the crest of a wave
         A. Headways
         B. Isotropic
         C. Stop Line
         D. Amplitude
         Answer: Amplitude

246. a layer consisting of properly designed mix od coarse aggregate fine aggregate, a filler and a
bituminous binder

         A. Mooring dolphins
         B. Asphatic Concrete
         C. pattern is red-red
         D. Alligator cracking
         Answer: Asphatic Concrete

247. the average of the spot speeds of all vehicles passing a given point in the highway
         A. Space headway
         B. Average speed
         C. Diurnal tides
         D. Obstructions
         Answer: Average speed

248. the component of the road structure which receives the traffic load and transfer it to the
subgrade

         A. Sea
         B. Groin
         C. Base
         D. Gates
         Answer: Base

249. this normally consists of aggregates such as gravel and crushed rock
         A. Rail Anchors
         B. Distance gaps
         C. Base courses
         D. Traffic Signs
         Answer: Base courses

250. the max number of passenger cars that can pads a given point on a lane or roadway during
one hour under the most nearly ideal roadway and traffic conditions which can possible be
attained

         A. Beuforts Scale
         B. Distance gaps
         C. Basic capacity
         D. Tangent run out
         Answer: Basic capacity

251. process of proportioning cement, water, aggregates and additives prior to mixing concrete
         A. Yielding
         B. Blowups
         C. Batching
         D. Interval
         Answer: Batching

252. the physical configuration of the seabed, the measurements of depths of water in the ocean,
etc. and also information derived from such measurement

         A. Bathymetry
         B. Gage Bars
         C. Earthwork
         D. Turn Lines
         Answer: Bathymetry

253. an instrument use to measure intensity of wind
         A. Distance gaps
         B. Vertical curve
         C. Traffic safety
         D. Beuforts Scale
         Answer: Beuforts Scale

254. the mooring fitting for mooring ships during a storm installed close to the water line of the
berth

         A. Barriers
         B. Seiche
         C. Bitt
         D. Tide
         Answer: Bitt

255. a 20 mm thick premix bitumen layer over which is laid a seal coat
         A. Hydraulic Jump
         B. Object Height
         C. Bitumen carpet
         D. Compound curve
         Answer: Bitumen carpet

256. the exuding of bitumen onto the pavement surface causing a reduction in skid resistance
         A. Metacentric height
         B. Superelevation diagram
         C. Bleeding or flushing
         D. Vertical alignment
         Answer: Bleeding or flushing

257. cracks forming large interconnected polygons, usually with sharp corners or angles. These
cracks are generally caused by hardening and shrinkage of the asphalt and/or reflection cracking
from underlying layers such as cement treated base

         A. Block cracking
         B. Sight Distance
         C. Object Height
         D. Warning Signs
         Answer: Block cracking

258. localized upward buckling and shattering of the slabs at traverse joins or cracks
         A. Pavement
         B. Fairway
         C. Blowups
         D. Flow Net
         Answer: Blowups

259. the structure that protects harbor from stormy waves and permits calm in the harbor
         A. Breakwater
         B. Plasticity
         C. Indication
         D. Homogenous
         Answer: Breakwater

260. waves which fall forward since the forward velocity of the crest particles exceeds the velocity
of propagation of the wave itself. In deep water, this normally occurs when the wave length L is
less than 7 times the wave height H (L < 7H) and in shallow water when the depth d is
approximately equal to 1.25 H

         A. Diurnal tides
         B. Overhead Signs
         C. Retaining wall
         D. Breaking waves
         Answer: Breaking waves

261. Type of dolphins which are designed to take the impact of the ship when docking and to hold
the ship against a broadside wind. Therefore, they are provided with fenders to absorbed the
impact of the ship and to protect the dolphin and the ship from damage.
         A. Capacity Headways
         B. Breasting dolphins
         C. Alligator cracking
         D. Fixed mooring berth
         Answer: Breasting dolphins

262. a vertical post to which the eye of a morring line can be attached - the mooring fitting for
mooring ships during a storm installed at the outside or outside/inside of the berth far from the
waterline

         A. Faulting
         B. Flow Net
         C. Parkway
         D. Bollard
         Answer: Bollard

263. these consist of two curves in the same direction separated by a short tangent
         A. Broken back curve
         B. Speed Progression
         C. pattern is red-red
         D. Give Way Symbol
         Answer: Broken back curve

264. a structure for retaining or to prevent earth or fill from sliding into water
         A. Flow Net
         B. Viscosity
         C. Edge Line
         D. Bulkhead
         Answer: Bulkhead

265. the maximum sustained 15 min rate of flow, expressed in passenger cars per hour per lane,
which can be accommodated by a uniform freeway segment under prevailing traffic and roadway
conditions in one direction

         A. b. Pier
         B. Viscosity
         C. Capacity
         D. Weaving
         Answer: Capacity

266. the points at which the cut or fill slopes intersect the existing ground
         A. Wind waves
         B. Catch point
         C. Center Line
         D. Time Points
         Answer: Catch point
267. these are usually laid out in the field by occupying the tangent to curve point TC with a transit
and then establishing successive points by turning deflection angles and measuring chords

         A. Circular curves
         B. Type of vehicle
         C. Roadwork Signs
         D. Bitumen carpet
         Answer: Circular curves

268. the pressure against a vertical wall due to waves
         A. Bulkhead
         B. Edge Line
         C. Clapotis
         D. Blowups
         Answer: Clapotis

269. this term refers to any material consisting of a mixture of aggregates, such as sand, gravel, or
crushed stone, fastened together by cement

         A. Concrete
         B. Sub grade
         C. Moonson
         D. Flexible
         Answer: Concrete

270. these result when two curves of differing radius join one another
         A. Compound curve
         B. Mean free speed
         C. Berth structure
         D. Reaction time
         Answer: Compound curve

271. joints provided in concrete cement pavement is suspended Continously reinforced concrete
pavements - a type of rigid pavement, which has no transverse joints, except construction joints
or expansion joints when they are necessary at specific positions such as at bridges. This type of
pavement is typically used on high-volume, high-speed roadways

         A. Over consolidated
         B. Center of rigidity
         C. Construction joint
         D. Embedment depth (D)
         Answer: Construction joint

272. this is the cost of any material that has to be obtained off job site in order to make a fill
         A. Basic capacity
         B. Vehicle dynamic
         C. Clearance Time
         D. Cost of borrow
         Answer: Cost of borrow
273. this traffic conflict occurs when they cross paths directly
         A. Broken back curve
         B. Parking Bay Lines
         C. Crossing conflicts
         D. Merging conflicts
         Answer: Crossing conflicts

274. these are normally specified in m/m or in percentages. In railway practice, cross slopes may
be expressed in millimeters that the high rail is above the low rail, since there is a standard
horizontal distance maintained between rails

         A. Leeward side
         B. Orthotropic
         C. Neap tides
         D. Cross slope
         Answer: Cross slope

275. the process of providing the required water and maintaining a favorable temperature for a
period of time after placing concrete

         A. Harbor
         B. Fairway
         C. Curing
         D. Batching
         Answer: Curing

276. primary consideration in the design of geometric cross sections for highways, runways, and
taxi ways

         A. Profile
         B. Flow Line
         C. Drainage
         D. Emotion
         Answer: Drainage

277. waves in which the ratio of water depth to the wavelength is greater than 0.5
         A. Space mean speed
         B. Painted Median
         C. Give Way Symbol
         D. Deep water waves
         Answer: Deep water waves

278. light retro reflecting devices mounted at the side of the roadway in series to indicate the
roadway alignment

         A. Delineator
         B. Delineators
         C. Guide sign
         D. Cross slope
         Answer: Delineator
279. it is defined as the number of vehicles per unit distance occupying a thsection of roadway at a
given instant time and is usually measured in vehicles per mile or per km

         A. Fairway
         B. Berth
         C. Queue
         D. Density
         Answer: Density

280. the spread of energy along a wave crest
         A. Diffraction
         B. Bathymetry
         C. Intellection
         D. Story Drift
         Answer: Diffraction

281. defined as the fraction of time that vehicles are present at a point in space
         A. Distance gaps
         B. Intellection
         C. Basic capacity
         D. Flashing Lamps
         Answer: Distance gaps

282. the reciprocal of density which is usually measure in vehicles per mile or per kilometer
         A. Temporary Curbing
         B. Exit Ramp Marking
         C. Distance separation
         D. Shallow water waves
         Answer: Distance separation

283. tide which occurs only one high tide a day
         A. Diurnal tides
         B. Gravity waves
         C. Traffic volume
         D. Running speed
         Answer: Diurnal tides

284. the process by which a vehicle in a traffic stream leaves that traffic stream, such as a vehicle
leaving the outside lane if an expressway

         A. Isotropic
         B. Edge Line
         C. Elevation
         D. Diverging
         Answer: Diverging

285. this traffic conflict occurs when vehicles leave the traffic stream
         A. Cut or Excavation
         B. Offset of the Cycle
         C. Diverging conflicts
         D. Entrance Ramp Marking
         Answer: Diverging conflicts

286. progressive disintegration of the surface between the heel paths caused by dripping of a
gasoline or oil from vehicles

         A. Drip track raveling
         B. Releiving platform
         C. Entrance Ramp Marking
         D. Reaction distance
         Answer: Drip track raveling

287. the time that a wind blows across the water
         A. Concrete
         B. Duration
         C. a. Wharf
         D. Discharge
         Answer: Duration

288. these quantities are normally expressed as volumes, in metric units, they are given in cubic
meters

         A. Joint Bars
         B. Edge Line
         C. Bathymetry
         D. Earthwork
         Answer: Earthwork

289. these are in meters above some datum; usually this datum is mean sea level, but it may be
any arbitrary scale

         A. Faulting
         B. Elevation
         C. Tack coat
         D. Barriers
         Answer: Elevation

290. the time linked with the two stages perception and intellection based on a particular traffic
situation like fear or anger which has a vital influence on the final message or decision sent by the
brain to the muscle

         A. Occupancy
         B. Parkway
         C. Merging
         D. Emotion
         Answer: Emotion

291. divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or partial control of access and generally
with grade separations at major intersection
         A. Bathymetry
         B. Earthwork
         C. Elasticity
         D. Expressway
         Answer: Expressway

292. primarily involved in planning designing, constructing, maintaining, and operating fixed
facilities

         A. Factor of safety or safety factor
         B. c. Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW)
         C. Facility oriented organization
         D. Guide Signs (Informative Signs)
         Answer: Facility oriented organization

293. elevation difference between adjacent slabs at traverse joints. This is usually the result of
pumping and is a major source of Portland concrete pavement

         A. Flow Line
         B. Stop Line
         C. Gage Bars
         D. Faulting
         Answer: Faulting

294. the distance that the wind blows over the sea in generating the waves is known as:
         A. Seiche
         B. Fetch
         C. Dam
         D. Merging
         Answer: Fetch

295. A marine structure consisting of dolphins for tying up the ship and a platform for supporting
the cargo handling equipment.

         A. Crossing conflicts
         B. Horizontal tangents
         C. Construction joint
         D. Fixed mooring berth
         Answer: Fixed mooring berth

296. a pavement which has negligible flexural strength
         A. Headway
         B. Tsunamis
         C. Flexible
         D. Orifice
         Answer: Flexible

297. the cost of excavation normally includes the cost of removing the material from its existing
state, hauling it up to some specified distance
         A. Free haul distance
         B. Structural number
         C. Semi diurnal tides
         D. Fill or Embankment
         Answer: Free haul distance

298. Th headway in a major stream, which is evaluated by a vehicle driver in a minor stream who
wishes to merge into the major stream

         A. Tide
         B. Dam
         C. Gap
         D. Swell
         Answer: Gap

299. this view has elevation as its vertical axis and horizontal distance, measured perpendicular to
the centerline, as its horizontal axis

         A. Mixed diurnal tides
         B. Offset of the Cycle
         C. Geoemtric cross section
         D. Single alternate system
         Answer: Geoemtric cross section

300. these are sometimes used in constructing pavements. These are used to add strength, control
moisture, and prevent the movement of fine materials into drainage layers

         A. Geotextiles
         B. Wave Crest
         C. Spot speed
         D. Sea island
         Answer: Geotextiles

301. expressed as decima fractions or as percentages
         A. Mole
         B. Grade
         C. Jetty
         D. Delay
         Answer: Grade

302. these traffic solutions eliminates the crossing conflicts by placing the conflicting traffic
streams at different elevations at their point of intersection

         A. Grade separation
         B. Reynolds Number
         C. Major head loss
         D. Circular curves
         Answer: Grade separation
303. Waves are formed by the frictional drag of wind across the water surface. This is a process of
transferring energy from wind to water. Water particles are moved from their position by the wind,
and then returned to the original position by gravity, which is a restoring force.

         A. Gravity waves
         B. Time sharing
         C. Running speed
         D. Average speed
         Answer: Gravity waves

304. a shore protection structure usually built perpendicular to the coastline to retard littoral
transport of sedimentary materials

         A. Harbor
         B. Groin
         C. Dam
         D. Cycle
         Answer: Groin

305. inform and advice road users of directions, distance, routes, the location of services and
points of interests

         A. Settlement
         B. Gage Bars
         C. Guide sign
         D. Metacenter
         Answer: Guide sign

306. the reciprocal of flow is the average time separation in the traffic stream and is usually
measured in seconds

         A. Flow Net
         B. Concrete
         C. Headway
         D. Estimates
         Answer: Headway

307. A maximum wave height and wave period of the maximum wave height in wave train.
         A. Highest wave
         B. Distance gaps
         C. Cross slope
         D. Water hammer
         Answer: Highest wave

308. this type of control on the object on the job site is commonly identified as primary, secondary
and working

         A. Construction joint
         B. Horizontal Control
         C. Regulatory Signs
         D. Mixed diurnal tides
         Answer: Horizontal Control

309. these are described in terms of their lengths and their directions
         A. Atmospheric pressure
         B. Semi diurnal tides
         C. Construction joint
         D. Horizontal tangents
         Answer: Horizontal tangents

310. waves in which the ratio of water depth to the wave length is less than 0.5 but greater than
0.40

         A. Transitional water wave
         B. Pore water pressure
         C. Immediate water waves
         D. Bus and PUJ Lane line
         Answer: Immediate water waves

311. after perception occurs, the formation of new thoughts and ideas, recalling old memories of
similar occasions to a particular traffic situation

         A. Intellection
         B. Warning Signs
         C. Rumble Strips
         D. Reaction time
         Answer: Intellection

312. the breakdown or disintegration of slab edges at joints or cracks, usually resulting in the ;ss
of sound concrete and the progressive widening of the joint or crack

         A. Raised Pavement Markers
         B. Joint or crack spailling
         C. Plain concrete pavement
         D. Bleeding or flushing
         Answer: Joint or crack spailling

313. distanced traveled by the vehicle during the total reaction time
         A. Center Line
         B. Diurnal tides
         C. Tidal bores
         D. Lag distance
         Answer: Lag distance

314. the opposite side of a structure facing the direction from which the wind comes
         A. Time Points
         B. Center Line
         C. Liquefaction
         D. Leeward side
         Answer: Leeward side
315. cracks approximately at right angles to the pavement center line. These are caused by poorly
constructed construction joints and shrinkage of the asphalt concrete surface; they may also be
reflective cracks

         A. Single alternate system
         B. Transitional water wave
         C. Mixed diurnal tides
         D. Longitudinal cracking
         Answer: Longitudinal cracking

316. a mixture of bitumen, fine aggregate and filler in suitable proportion heated to about 200 C in
special cooker and laid

         A. Mastic asphalt
         B. Overhead Signs
         C. Skid resistance
         D. Type of vehicle
         Answer: Mastic asphalt

317. the maximum speed that cab be attained on a highway as the flow tends to zero
         A. Actual displacement
         B. Diagonal Markings
         C. Maximum free speed
         D. Equipotential line
         Answer: Maximum free speed

318. the maximum speed that can be attained on a highway as the flow tend to be zero
         A. Derived Utility
         B. Mean free speed
         C. Traffic safety
         D. Give Way Symbol
         Answer: Mean free speed

319. the process by which a vehicle in on traffic stream joins another traffic steam moving in the
same direction such as a ramp vehicle joining a freeway stream

         A. Flexible
         B. Capacity
         C. Merging
         D. Pascal
         Answer: Merging

320. this traffic occurs when vehicles enter a traffic stream
         A. Continuity Line
         B. Traverse cracking
         C. Significant wave
         D. Merging conflicts
         Answer: Merging conflicts
321. these models of traffic flow describe the relationship among flow, speed and density
         A. Time sharing
         B. Rail Anchors
         C. Macroscopic
         D. Expressway
         Answer: Macroscopic

322. these models of traffic flow describe the motion of individual vehicles and their interactions
with one another

         A. Time sharing
         B. Plain view
         C. Orthotropic
         D. Microscopic
         Answer: Microscopic

323. if one of the two daily tide is incomplete that is it does not reach the height of the previous
tide, then the tides

         A. Mixed diurnal tides
         B. Speed Progression
         C. Releiving platform
         D. Entrance Ramp Marking
         Answer: Mixed diurnal tides

324. A breakwater is a structure constructed for the purpose of forming an artificial harbor with a
water area so protected from the effect of sea waves as to provide safe shipping. When a
accommodations for breakwater supports a roadway

         A. Mole
         B. Bitt
         C. Jetty
         D. Curing
         Answer: Mole

325. prevailing winds which are seasonal blowing in one direction over part of the year and in the
opposite direction the remainder of the year

         A. Blowups
         B. Flow Net
         C. Period
         D. Moonson
         Answer: Moonson

326. type of dolphins which are not designed for the impact of the ship, as they located in back of
the face of the dock where they will not be hit. They are located about 45 off the bow and stern.

         A. Mooring dolphins
         B. Driver Eye Height
         C. Over consolidated
         D. Painted Median
         Answer: Mooring dolphins

327. the lowest tide of the month when the line connecting the earth with sun and the moon form a
right triangle that is when the moon is in its quarters

         A. Shoulders
         B. Roundabouts
         C. Drag Force
         D. Neap tides
         Answer: Neap tides

328. known as carriers, primarily concerned with operating fleets to provide transportation
services

         A. pattern is red-red
         B. Special Instruction Signs
         C. Single and double pillar
         D. Operating organization
         Answer: Operating organization

329. signs which provide means of displaying essential traffic information on wide multilane roads,
where some degree of lane use control is required or where side of road clearance is insufficient to
accommodate a road side sign

         A. Beuforts Scale
         B. Traffic volume
         C. Overhead sign
         D. Road capacity
         Answer: Overhead sign

330. an arterial highway for non- commercial traffic with full or partial control of access and usually
located within park

         A. Length
         B. Nozzle
         C. Headways
         D. Parkway
         Answer: Parkway

331. the layered structure placed over a soil sub grade for forming a road
         A. Parkway
         B. Elevation
         C. Pavement
         D. Lane Line
         Answer: Pavement

332. refers to the structural adequacy of the pavement section
         A. Distance separation
         B. Offset of the Cycle
         C. Parking Bay Lines
         D. Pavement deflection
         Answer: Pavement deflection

333. refers to the condition of a pavement in terms of its general appearance
         A. Parking Bay Lines
         B. Pavement distress
         C. Cut or Excavation
         D. Transition curves
         Answer: Pavement distress

334. the measurement of the extent to which a road surface deviates from the plane
         A. Broken back curve
         B. Pavement roughness
         C. Center of rigidity
         D. Actual displacement
         Answer: Pavement roughness

335. time required for transmission of the sensations received (through eyes, ears and body) to the
brain and the spiral chord by the nervous system, to a particular traffic situation

         A. Vertical curve
         B. Perception time
         C. Relative Speed
         D. Pavement Arrows
         Answer: Perception time

336. the interval of time for two wave crests to pass the same position in space
         A. Blowups
         B. Period
         C. Headway
         D. Capacity
         Answer: Period

337. a berth structure projecting out from the shoreline
         A. Profile
         B. Gates
         C. Pier
         D. Power
         Answer: Pier

338. a type of rigid pavement, which has no temperature steel or dowels for the load transfer. This
type of pavement is used mainly on low volume highways or when cement stabilized soils are used
as sub material

         A. Reciprocal of stiffness
         B. Raised Pavement Markers
         C. Special Instruction Signs
         D. Plain concrete pavement
         Answer: Plain concrete pavement

339. this is a drawing of the facility as it would look to an bserver directly above it
         A. Cross slope
         B. Time Gaps
         C. Plain view
         D. Elasticity
         Answer: Plain view

340. line representing the facility on the profile
         A. Compound curve
         B. Obstructions
         C. Average speed
         D. Profile grade
         Answer: Profile grade

341. the max number of passenger cars that can pass a given point on a lane or roadway during
one hour under prevailing roadway and traffic conditions

         A. Possible capacity
         B. Type of vehicle
         C. Vertical alignment
         D. Grade separation
         Answer: Possible capacity

342. the max number of vehicles that can pads a given point on a lane or roadway during one hour
without traffic density being so great as to cause unreasonable delay hazard or restrictions to the
driver's freedom to maneuver under the prevailing roadway and traffic

         A. Practical capacity
         B. Fixed mooring berth
         C. Vertical alignment
         D. Free haul distance
         Answer: Practical capacity

343. a layer of stone chipping coat laid over a hot to make the surface water proof conditions
         A. Hookes Law
         B. Wave Crest
         C. Prime coat
         D. Settlement
         Answer: Prime coat

344. wearing away of the pavement surface caused by the dislodging of aggregate particles and
binder

         A. Flexible
         B. Barriers
         C. Yielding
         D. Raveling
         Answer: Raveling

345. the total time required for perception, intellection, emotion and volition that is from the instant
the object comes in the line of sight of the driver to the instant he arrives a decision say to slow
down or overtake, under normal circumstance

         A. Beuforts Scale
         B. Roadwork Signs
         C. Reaction time
         D. Relative Speed
         Answer: Reaction time

346. the bending of waves as they slow down
         A. Expressway
         B. Sea island
         C. Refraction
         D. Edge Line
         Answer: Refraction

347. a platform or deck structure built below the top deck level and supported on bearing piles.
The main function of the platform is to reduce the lateral soil pressure over the upper portion of
the sheet wall

         A. Hydraulic Gradient
         B. Speed Progression
         C. Embedment depth (D)
         D. Releiving platform
         Answer: Releiving platform

348. the maximum number of passenger cars that can pass a given point on lane or roadway
during one hour under the most nearly ideal roadway and traffic conditions which can possibly be
attained

         A. Compound curve
         B. Base courses
         C. Design Speed
         D. Road capacity
         Answer: Road capacity

349. the average speed maintained by a vehicle over a particular stretched of road, while the
vehicle is in motion. This is obtained by dividing the distance covered by the time during which the
vehicle is in motion

         A. Obstructions
         B. Sight Distance
         C. Base courses
         D. Running speed
         Answer: Running speed

350. to level a floor or layer of concrete with a straight edge using a back and forth motion while
moving across the surface
         A. Screeding
         B. Clear Zone
         C. Resonance
         D. Clapotis
         Answer: Screeding

351. waves under the influence of the winds that generated them
         A. Headway
         B. Gates
         C. Pascal
         D. Sea
         Answer: Sea

352. a berth structure with no direct connection to the shore, at which the ships can berth.
Berthing can take place on either one or both sided of the structure

         A. Estimates
         B. Joint Bars
         C. Expressway
         D. Sea island
         Answer: Sea island

353. a very thin surface applied over a bituminous pavement to make it impervious
         A. Occupancy
         B. Plan View
         C. Batching
         D. Seal coat
         Answer: Seal coat

354. a very long-standing wave on a large but limited body of water (lake) generated by occurring
when a storm dies down after producing a wind tide

         A. Creep
         B. Seiche
         C. Wharf
         D. Speed
         Answer: Seiche

355. waves of this type have very long periods, typically from 30 sec. up to the tidal period of 12 hr.
25 min. and are mostly found in enclosed or semi- enclosed basins such as artificial port basins or
bays.

         A. Skid resistance
         B. Clearance Time
         C. Seiching waves
         D. Cost of borrow
         Answer: Seiching waves

356. tides that occur twice its lunar day
         A. Merging conflicts
         B. Semi diurnal tides
         C. Regulatory Signs
         D. Shallow foundation
         Answer: Semi diurnal tides

357. local sagging in the pavement caused by differential settlement, consolidation, or movement
of the underlying earth mass

         A. Guide sign
         B. Diffraction
         C. Homogenous
         D. Settlement
         Answer: Settlement

358. waves in which the ratio of water depth to the wave length is equal to or less than 0.40. -
waves which occur in water having a depth less than one half of the wave length and the influence
of the bottom changes the form or orbital motion from circular to elliptical or near- elliptical.

         A. Shallow water waves
         B. Crossing conflicts
         C. Pore water pressure
         D. Releiving platform
         Answer: Shallow water waves

359. these are intended primarily as a safety feature. They provide for accommodation of stopped
vehicles, emergency use, and lateral support of the pavement

         A. Resonance
         B. Faulting
         C. Shoulders
         D. Flow Line
         Answer: Shoulders

360. describes the effectiveness of a pavement to prevent or reduce skid related crashes
         A. Post tensioning
         B. Compound curve
         C. Skid resistance
         D. Perception time
         Answer: Skid resistance

361. A hypothetical wave having a wave height and period equal respectively to average values of
the wave height and period of the largest 1/3 of all waves in the train as counted in the order of
greater wave height.

         A. Deep water waves
         B. Significant wave
         C. Speed Progression
         D. Traverse cracking
         Answer: Significant wave
362. a type of rigid pavement having dowels for the transfer of traffic load across joints with these
joints spaced at larger distance than with plain pavements ranging from 10 m to 30 m. Temperature
steel is used throughout the slab

         A. Single and double pillar
         B. Simply reinforced concrete pavement
         C. b. Mean Low Water (MWL)
         D. Geoemtric cross section
         Answer: Simply reinforced concrete pavement

363. A type of mooring bollard which is suitable for warping ships along berths a single pillar type
is used with lines from one ship only. General mooring application where rope angle is not steep. It
has a normal max. working capacity of 200 tons. Significant wave height -the arithmetical mean
value of the highest one-third of the waves for a stated interval

         A. Single and double pillar
         B. Immediate water waves
         C. Superelevation transition
         D. Plain concrete pavement
         Answer: Single and double pillar

364. A type of mooring bollard where all general mooring applications including steep rope angles
and lines from two ships may be attached without interference. It has normal max. capacity of 200
tons.

         A. Roundabouts
         B. Traffic cone
         C. Slobing robe
         D. Rail Anchors
         Answer: Slobing robe

365. waves that have propagated beyond the initial winds that generated them
         A. Wakes
         B. Orifice
         C. Swell
         D. Weaving
         Answer: Swell

366. generated by storms, which occur outside area of observation
         A. Swells Waves
         B. Object Height
         C. Overhead sign
         D. Windward side
         Answer: Swells Waves

367. the distance between the front of a vehicle and the front of the following vehicle
         A. Space headway
         B. Catch Points
         C. Painted Median
         D. Traffic volume
         Answer: Space headway

368. the arithmetic mean of speed of vehicles occupying a relatively long section of street or
highway at given instant

         A. Vehicle dynamic
         B. Over consolidated
         C. Policy Headways
         D. Space mean speed
         Answer: Space mean speed

369. rate of change of distance with respect to time and is usually measured in either miles per
hour or feet per second depending on the application

         A. Speed
         B. Profile
         C. Period
         D. Gates
         Answer: Speed

370. the instantaneous speed of a vehicle at a specified section or location
         A. Roundabouts
         B. Macroscopic
         C. Microscopic
         D. Spot speed
         Answer: Spot speed

371. the highest tide which occurs at intervals of half a lunar month when the sun , moon and earth
fall in line

         A. Wind Seiching
         B. Wave length
         C. Spring tides
         D. Geotextiles
         Answer: Spring tides

372. the ratio of the wave height to its wave length is called
         A. Resonance
         B. Steepness
         C. Sub grade
         D. Concrete
         Answer: Steepness

373. an abnormal rise of the sea level that occurs when a typhoon passes by. This rise above
normal level on this open coast is due to atmospheric pressure reduction as well as due to wind
stress.

         A. Settlement
         B. Storm Surge
         C. Orthotropic
         D. Wind waves
         Answer: Storm Surge

374. determined based on the traffic loads, soils support, and other design factors
         A. Queue Discipline
         B. Structural number
         C. Absolute Pressure
         D. Practical capacity
         Answer: Structural number

375. the part of the road structure which is immediately above the subgrade and composed of
stone boulders or superior soil

         A. Time Gaps
         B. Drainage
         C. Sub base
         D. Batching
         Answer: Sub base

376. the layer of natural soil over which the pavement road is laid
         A. Capacity
         B. Sub grade
         C. Expressway
         D. Tack coat
         Answer: Sub grade

377. this applies to cuved facilities, such as highways or railways, only. It consists of a graph with
roadway or railway cross slope versus horizontal distance

         A. Reciprocal of stiffness
         B. Superelevation diagram
         C. Actual displacement
         D. Space-time diagram
         Answer: Superelevation diagram

378. the length of super elevation development from zero cross slope to full design super elevation
in a circular curve alignment

         A. Super elevation run off
         B. Double alternate system
         C. b. Transverse Lines
         D. Archimedes Principle
         Answer: Super elevation run off

379. Wind generated waves which are created in the deep ocean at some distance from the port
site and the wind that created them may be too distant to be felt in the port or may have stopped
blowing or changed, its direction by the time the wave reach the port.

         A. Focal depth
         B. Band Width
         C. Swell waves
         D. Obstructions
         Answer: Swell waves

380. the purpose of this is to counteract the centripetal acceleration produced as a vehicle round a
curve

         A. elsewhere on two and three
         B. Passive earth pressure coefficient
         C. Superelevation or banking of curves
         D. Transitional water wave
         Answer: Superelevation or banking of curves

381. this involve modification of the roadway cross section from normal crown to full
superelevation, at which point the entire roadway width has a cross slope of e Surface attrition or
surface abrasion - abnormal surface wear, usually resulting from poor quality surface mortar or
coarse aggregate

         A. Triple alternate system
         B. Superelevation transition
         C. Flexible Post or Bollard
         D. Immediate water waves
         Answer: Superelevation transition

382. loss pf the original surface texture due to traffic action
         A. Hydraulic Jump
         B. Bitumen carpet
         C. Surface polish
         D. Continuity Line
         Answer: Surface polish

383. an application of hot bitumen material given to the old surface to provide adhesion to the old
and new road surface

         A. Duration
         B. Wind rose
         C. Tack coat
         D. Expressway
         Answer: Tack coat

384. the length of super elevation development from the normal cross slope to the zero cross
slope point on the tangent

         A. Wearing coarse
         B. Tangent run out
         C. Chevron Markings
         D. Traffic capacity
         Answer: Tangent run out
385. A type of mooring bollard where all general mooring applications including steep rope angles.
Any one bollard should preferably be allocated to lines from one ship only. It has a normal
maximum working capacity of 150 tons.

         A. Plan View
         B. Tee head
         C. Bulkhead
         D. Tack coat
         Answer: Tee head

386. high crester waves caused by the rush of flood tide up river or by meeting of tides
         A. Delineator
         B. Tidal bores
         C. Spot speed
         D. Rail Anchors
         Answer: Tidal bores

387. waves formed by gravitational attraction of the moon and sun
         A. Tide
         B. Headway
         C. Sea
         D. Density
         Answer: Tide

388. the time interval between the passage of successive vehicle is moving in the same lane and
measured from head to head as they pass a point on the road

         A. Rail Anchors
         B. Time headway
         C. Warning Signs
         D. Running speed
         Answer: Time headway

389. the arithmetic mean of the speeds of vehicles passing a point on a highway during an interval
of time

         A. Major head loss
         B. Braking distance
         C. Time mean speed
         D. Painted Median
         Answer: Time mean speed

390. these traffic solution involve assignment of the right of way to particular movements for
particular time

         A. Give Way Line
         B. Warning Signs
         C. Time sharing
         D. Average speed
         Answer: Time sharing
391. a type of wave where depth is less than ½ of wave length but greater than 1/25 of the wave
length

         A. Offset of the Cycle
         B. Passing Sight Distance
         C. Transitional water wave
         D. Embedment depth (D)
         Answer: Transitional water wave

392. the ability of a roadway to accommodate traffic volume. t is expressed as the maximum
number of vehicles in a lane or a road that can pass a given point in unit time, usually an hour, that
is vehicle per hour per lane or roadway

         A. Traffic capacity
         B. Time mean speed
         C. Geometric Design
         D. Kinetic Friction
         Answer: Traffic capacity

393. devices which may be conical in shape or tubular shaped capable of performing
channelization o traffic which may be set on the surface if the roadway or rigidly attached for
continued use

         A. Reaction time
         B. Traffic cone
         C. Leeward side
         D. Diffraction
         Answer: Traffic cone

394. a major challenge for the transportation system and the transportation engineering profession
because it undermines the effectiveness and efficiency of the system - demand exceeds the
capacity of the transportation system

         A. Water bound macadam
         B. Pore water pressure
         C. Signal Coordination
         D. Traffic congestion
         Answer: Traffic congestion

395. continuing challenge for the transportation engineering profession because of public
expectations that safety will continue to improve.

         A. No Passing Zone
         B. Bitumen carpet
         C. Breaking waves
         D. Traffic safety
         Answer: Traffic safety

396. the number of vehicles moving in a specified direction on a given lane or roadway that pass a
given point during specified unit time and is usually expressed as vehicles per hour or vehicle per
day

         A. Give Way Line
         B. Block cracking
         C. Overhead sign
         D. Traffic volume
         Answer: Traffic volume

397. these are used to connect tangents to circular curves
         A. Traverse cracking
         B. Broken back curve
         C. Asphatic Concrete
         D. Transition curves
         Answer: Transition curves

398. cracks approximately at right angles to the pavement center-line. These may be caused by
shrinkage or differential thermal stress of the asphalt concrete, or may be reflective crack

         A. Relative Pressure
         B. Transition Lines
         C. Traverse cracking
         D. Continuity Line
         Answer: Traverse cracking

399. joints provided in concrete cement pavements at right angles to the centre line of the
pavement

         A. Circular curves
         B. Road capacity
         C. Traverse joint
         D. Surface polish
         Answer: Traverse joint

400. waves created by large, sudden impacts, such as earthquakes, volcanoes or landslides that
ends up in ocean.

         A. Shoulders
         B. Stop Line
         C. Wind rose
         D. Tsunamis
         Answer: Tsunamis

401. this determines the length of the superelevation run off of transitional curves
         A. Mastic asphalt
         B. Minor head loss
         C. Braking distance
         D. Vehicle dynamic
         Answer: Vehicle dynamic

402. the speed pf the wave form which travels over the water surface for a certain wave
         A. Factor of safety or safety factor
         B. a. Longitudinal Lines
         C. Velocity of wave propagation
         D. Joint or crack spailling
         Answer: Velocity of wave propagation

403. the longitudinal profile along the centerline of the road. It is made up of a series of grades and
vertical curves

         A. Broken back curve
         B. Diverging conflicts
         C. Vertical alignment
         D. Merging conflicts
         Answer: Vertical alignment

404. these are normally parabolas centered about the point of intersection of the vertical tangents
they join

         A. Traffic safety
         B. Wearing coarse
         C. Vertical curve
         D. Specifications
         Answer: Vertical curve

405. the time taking a decision to produce action to a particular traffic situation
         A. Venturi Meter
         B. Surface polish
         C. Volition time
         D. Overhead Signs
         Answer: Volition time

406. waves formed by moving ship or boats - waves formed by moving ship or boats
         A. Port
         B. Wakes
         C. Column
         D. Line
         Answer: Wakes

407. a road made of coarse aggregate mechanically interlocked by rolling and bonded together
with screening dust

         A. Crossing conflicts
         B. Asphatic Concrete
         C. Water bound macadam
         D. Horizontal tangents
         Answer: Water bound macadam

408. the highest point of the wave
         A. Wave Crest
         B. Estimates
         C. Sub grade
         D. Shoulders
         Answer: Wave Crest

409. the elevation of the crest above the through of the wave
         A. Design Speed
         B. Wave height
         C. Time headway
         D. Highest wave
         Answer: Wave height

410. the length between two consecutive crests
         A. Cross slope
         B. Wave length
         C. Spot speed
         D. Prime coat
         Answer: Wave length

411. the wave form travels over thee water surface and the time for two consecutive crests to pass
a point

         A. Wave height
         B. Tidal bores
         C. Wave period
         D. Spring tides
         Answer: Wave period

412. A change in the dissection of travel of the wave with change in depth of water which
distributes wave along energy the seashore unevenly

         A. Traverse joint
         B. Breaking waves
         C. Policy Headways
         D. Wave refraction
         Answer: Wave refraction

413. the lowest point of the wave
         A. Settlement
         B. Wave trough
         C. Delineator
         D. Turn Lines
         Answer: Wave trough

414. the layer in a road pavement which provides resistance to wear and tear due to traffic
         A. Overhead Signs
         B. Traffic volume
         C. Wearing coarse
         D. Traverse joint
         Answer: Wearing coarse
415. soil stabilized roads with cement/lime cannot be used
         A. Relative Speed
         B. Wearing Surface
         C. Turbulent Flow
         D. Vertical curve
         Answer: Wearing Surface

416. the process by which a vehicle first merges into a stream of traffic obliquely crosses that
stream, then merges in to a second stream moving in the same direction

         A. Pascal
         B. Corbel
         C. Weaving
         D. Capacity
         Answer: Weaving

417. this traffic conflict occurs when vehicles cross paths by first merging and the diverging
         A. Weaving conflicts
         B. Free haul distance
         C. b. Transverse Lines
         D. Absolute Pressure
         Answer: Weaving conflicts

418. a platform built parallel to the shore or breakwater within the harbor to berth vessel
         A. Pier
         B. Wharf
         C. Blowups
         D. Trip
         Answer: Wharf

419. the circulation of masses of air more or less parallel to the earth`s surface
         A. Port
         B. Gap
         C. Wind
         D. Phase
         Answer: Wind

420. the graphical representation of the direction, frequency and intensity of winds at a particular
location over period of time

         A. Wind rose
         B. Resultant
         C. Elevation
         D. Delineator
         Answer: Wind rose

421. when local winds blow over the surface of the water, near the shores will create
         A. Wind Seiching
         B. Design Speed
         C. Surface polish
         D. Road geometry
         Answer: Wind Seiching

422. the side of a structure facing the direction from which the wind
         A. Swells Waves
         B. Windward side
         C. Venturi Meter
         D. Block cracking
         Answer: Windward side

423. waves generated by wind that are acting on the sea surface bordering on the port site.
Definition of Terms Fluid Mechanics & Hydraulics

         A. Homogenous
         B. Wind waves
         C. Shoulders
         D. Turn Lines
         Answer: Wind waves

424. pressure above absolute zero
         A. Capacity Headways
         B. Queue Discipline
         C. Maximum free speed
         D. Absolute Pressure
         Answer: Absolute Pressure

425. Anybody immersed in a fluid is subjected to an upward force called buoyant force equal to the
weight of the displaced fluid.

         A. Space-time diagram
         B. Archimedes Principle
         C. Alligator cracking
         D. Horizontal tangents
         Answer: Archimedes Principle

426. pressure at any one point on the earth surface from the weight of the air above it.
         A. Breasting dolphins
         B. Free haul distance
         C. Atmospheric pressure
         D. Mixed diurnal tides
         Answer: Atmospheric pressure

427. in any stream flowing steadily without friction the total energy contained is the same at every
point in its path of flow

         A. Guide sign
         B. Earthwork
         C. Bernoulli
         D. Time Gaps
         Answer: Bernoulli

428. consist of wall, or face, supported by several buttresses on the downstream side
         A. Leeward side
         B. Wave height
         C. Base courses
         D. Buttress Dam
         Answer: Buttress Dam

429. structures that block the flow of a river, stream, or other waterway
         A. Trip
         B. Dam
         C. Fetch
         D. Volume
         Answer: Dam

430. It acts opposite to the direction of the oncoming flow velocity
         A. Expressway
         B. Macroscopic
         C. Drag Force
         D. Hookes Law
         Answer: Drag Force

431. the volume of liquid passing a cross section of a stream
         A. Estimates
         B. Drainage
         C. Screeding
         D. Discharge
         Answer: Discharge

432. gravity dam formed out of loose rock, earth, or a combination of these materials
         A. Embankment Dam
         B. Basic capacity
         C. Specifications
         D. Derived Utility
         Answer: Embankment Dam

433. It is a dimensionless value that describes different flow regimes of open channel flow
         A. Froude Number
         B. Road surface
         C. Painted Median
         D. Intellection
         Answer: Froude Number
434. an opening in a dam or other hydraulic structure to control the passage of water
         A. Delay
         B. Gates
         C. Plans
         D. Groin
         Answer: Gates

435. used only the force of gravity to resist water pressure
         A. Slobing robe
         B. Spot speed
         C. Gravity Dam
         D. Base courses
         Answer: Gravity Dam

436. graphical presentation pf the total energy of flow
         A. Hydraulic grade line
         B. Construction joint
         C. Temporary Curbing
         D. Fill or Embankment
         Answer: Hydraulic grade line

437. a line joining the points of highest elevation of water of a series of vertical open pipes rising
from a pipeline in which water flows under pressure

         A. Structural number
         B. Hydraulic Gradient
         C. Breasting dolphins
         D. Metacentric height
         Answer: Hydraulic Gradient

438. abrupt increase in depth of rapidly flowing water
         A. Berth structure
         B. Relative Speed
         C. Traverse joint
         D. Hydraulic Jump
         Answer: Hydraulic Jump

439. deals with the study pf the motion of liquid and of the interactions of the fluid with its
boundaries

         A. Give Way Line
         B. Catch Points
         C. Roadwork Signs
         D. Hydrodynamics
         Answer: Hydrodynamics

440. when the path of individual fluid particles do not cross or intersect
         A. Wave length
         B. Windward side
         C. Roundabouts
         D. Laminar Flow
         Answer: Laminar Flow

441. caused by pipe friction along straight sections of pipe of uniform diameter and uniform
roughness

         A. Clearance Time
         B. Traffic capacity
         C. Block cracking
         D. Major head loss
         Answer: Major head loss

442. the point of intersection between the axis of the body and the line of action of the buoyant
force

         A. Metacenter
         B. Turn Lines
         C. Screeding
         D. Bathymetry
         Answer: Metacenter

443. the distance from the metacenter to the center gravity of the body
         A. Construction joint
         B. Speed Progression
         C. Fixed-time Systems
         D. Metacentric height
         Answer: Metacentric height

444. caused by changes in velocity or directions of flow an are commonly express in terms of
kinetic energy

         A. Minor head loss
         B. Traffic volume
         C. Surface polish
         D. Wearing coarse
         Answer: Minor head loss

445. a converging tube installed at the end of a pipe or hose for the purpose of increasing the
velocity of the issuing jet

         A. Nozzle
         B. Headway
         C. Speed
         D. Line
         Answer: Nozzle

446. an opening with a closed perimeter through which fluid flows
         A. Orifice
         B. Barriers
         C. Plans
         D. Headway
         Answer: Orifice

447. the pressure exerted onto a liquid a transmitted undiminished to all portions of the liquid
         A. Corbel
         B. Line
         C. Period
         D. Pascal
         Answer: Pascal

448. used to measure the velocity of fluid flow or velocity of air flow as used in airplane
speedometer

         A. Clear Zone
         B. Tidal bores
         C. Pitot Tube
         D. Plasticity
         Answer: Pitot Tube

449. rate of work done per unit of time
         A. Merging
         B. Seiche
         C. Power
         D. Bitt
         Answer: Power

450. pressure above or below the atmosphere and can be measure by pressure gauges or
manometers

         A. Shallow foundation
         B. Relative Pressure
         C. b. Transverse Lines
         D. Releiving platform
         Answer: Relative Pressure

451. defines as the ration of inertia force to viscous force and interpreted as the ratio dynamic
pressure to shearing stress

         A. Beuforts Scale
         B. Reynolds Number
         C. Painted Median
         D. Mean free speed
         Answer: Reynolds Number

452. extract flow energy to do mechanical work which in turn converted into electrical energy for
turbines

         A. Turbine
         B. Corbel
         C. Headways
         D. Period
         Answer: Turbine

453. when the path of individual particles are irregular and continuously cross each other
         A. Embankment Dam
         B. Turbulent Flow
         C. Flashing Lamps
         D. Continuity Line
         Answer: Turbulent Flow

454. resisting property of a liquid to shearing force
         A. Raveling
         B. Steepness
         C. Viscosity
         D. Refraction
         Answer: Viscosity

455. a pressure surge or wave caused when a fluid in motion is forced to stop or change direction
suddenly

         A. Center Line
         B. Diurnal tides
         C. Buttress Dam
         D. Water hammer
         Answer: Water hammer

456. overflow structures which are built across are open channel for the purpose of measuring or
controlling the flow of liquids

         A. Weir
         B. Fetch
         C. Numerals
         D. Tide
         Answer: Weir

457. an instrument used in measuring the discharge through pipes Definition of Terms
Geotechnical Engineering

         A. Windward side
         B. Venturi Meter
         C. Flashing Lamps
         D. Clearance Time
         Answer: Venturi Meter

458. ratio between lateral and vertical principal effective stresses when an earth retaining structure
moves away from a retained soil Allowable bearing capacity or safe bearing capacity -the working
pressure that would ensure a margin of safety against collapse of the re from shear failure.
         A. b. Mean Low Water (MWL)
         B. Passive earth pressure coefficient
         C. Ultimate bearing capacity
         D. Active earth pressure coefficient
         Answer: Active earth pressure coefficient

459. the component of shear strength of a rock or soil that interparticle friction
         A. Cohesion
         B. Capacity
         C. Duration
         D. Flexible
         Answer: Cohesion

460. used to describe the degree of firmness of soil
         A. Center Line
         B. Sea island
         C. Cross slope
         D. Consistency
         Answer: Consistency

461. the depth below the ground surface where the base of the foundation rests
         A. Diverging conflicts
         B. Embedment depth (D)
         C. Mixed diurnal tides
         D. Bus and PUJ Lane line
         Answer: Embedment depth (D)

462. a line along which the potential head at all points is equal
         A. Absolute Pressure
         B. Weaving conflicts
         C. Signal Coordination
         D. Equipotential line
         Answer: Equipotential line

463. the ratio of the ultimate net bearing to the allowable bearing cap ng capacity or to the applied
maximum vertical stress

         A. Signal Coordination
         B. Factor of safety or safety factor
         C. Right Turn Slip Lanes
         D. Limit of Economic Haul
         Answer: Factor of safety or safety factor

464. a line along which a water particle will travel from upstream to the down stream side in the
permeable soil medium

         A. Screeding
         B. Flow Line
         C. Expressway
         D. Drainage
         Answer: Flow Line

465. a combination of a number of flow line and equipotential line
         A. Amplitude
         B. Headways
         C. Plan View
         D. Flow Net
         Answer: Flow Net

466. consisting of a small slab for transmitting the re load to the underlying soil.
         A. Footings
         B. Turbine
         C. Duration
         D. Bollard
         Answer: Footings

467. structure load to is that part of a structure which transmits the building, load nto the
underlying soil

         A. Time Points
         B. Foundation
         C. Hookes Law
         D. Earthwork
         Answer: Foundation

468. stress resulting from particle to particle contact of soil
         A. Intergranular Stress
         B. Horizontal Control
         C. Maximum free speed
         D. Signal Coordination
         Answer: Intergranular Stress

469. a process by which water saturated soil sediment temporarily loss strength and acts as a fluid
         A. Macroscopic
         B. Hinge Points
         C. Liquefaction
         D. Swells Waves
         Answer: Liquefaction

470. the pressure (effective stress) of the soil removed fraction of the to place the footing
         A. Free haul distance
         B. Right Turn Slip Lanes
         C. Overburden pressure
         D. Releiving platform
         Answer: Overburden pressure

471. it is a soil whose present effective over burn pressure is less than that which the soil
experienced in the past

         A. Shallow foundation
         B. Equipotential line
         C. Over consolidated
         D. Reaction distance
         Answer: Over consolidated

472. ratio between lateral and vertical principal effective stresses when an earth retaining structure
is forced against a soil mass

         A. Superelevation diagram
         B. Passive earth pressure coefficient
         C. Geoemtric cross section
         D. Actions available to the driver
         Answer: Passive earth pressure coefficient

473. stress induced by water pressures
         A. Water bound macadam
         B. Pore water pressure
         C. Atmospheric pressure
         D. Broken back curve
         Answer: Pore water pressure

474. structure whose primary purpose is to prevent lateral movement of earth or some material
         A. Average speed
         B. Turbulent Flow
         C. Retaining wall
         D. Roadwork Signs
         Answer: Retaining wall

475. soil derives its strength from its capacity to resist
         A. Wakes
         B. Mole
         C. Cycle
         D. Shear
         Answer: Shear

476. sum of effective and neutral stresses
         A. Laminar Flow
         B. Highest wave
         C. Total Stress
         D. Center Line
         Answer: Total Stress
477. one in which the ratio of the embedment depth to the minimum plan dimension, which is
usually the width, is Di/ B 52.5.

         A. Relative Pressure
         B. Braking distance
         C. Signal Coordination
         D. Shallow foundation
         Answer: Shallow foundation

478. the maximum pressure that the soil can support
         A. Plain concrete pavement
         B. Bus and PUJ Lane line
         C. Loading/Unloading Restrictions
         D. Ultimate bearing capacity
         Answer: Ultimate bearing capacity

479. the maximum pressure that the soil can support above its current Definition of Terms
Structural Engineering Construction

         A. Active earth pressure coefficient
         B. Special Instruction Signs
         C. Ultimate net bearing capacity
         D. Single and double pillar
         Answer: Ultimate net bearing capacity

480. it is measured by seismometer
         A. Bus and PUJ Lane line
         B. Asphatic Concrete
         C. Fixed mooring berth
         D. Actual displacement
         Answer: Actual displacement

481. it is the point through which the resultant of the resistance to the applied lateral force acts
         A. Horizontal tangents
         B. Center of rigidity
         C. Embedment depth (D)
         D. Diverging conflicts
         Answer: Center of rigidity

482. it is the point through which the applied seismic force acts
         A. Skid resistance
         B. Turbulent Flow
         C. Surface polish
         D. Center of mass
         Answer: Center of mass

483. structural member ha the ratio of its unsupported height to its least lateral dimension of not
less than 3 and is used primarily support axial load
         A. Orifice
         B. Plans
         C. Column
         D. Dry Dock
         Answer: Column

484. a short edge beam projecting from a column to support a weight
         A. Port
         B. Power
         C. Corbel
         D. Emotion
         Answer: Corbel

485. the structure is subjected to a load for a long period of time, it will continue to deform until a
sudden fracture occurs

         A. Creep
         B. Quay
         C. Weaving
         D. Trip
         Answer: Creep

486. it refers to the ability of a material to deform in the plastic range without braking
         A. Ductility
         B. Delineator
         C. Estimates
         D. Numerals
         Answer: Ductility

487. it refers to the property of a material which makes it return to its original dimension when the
load is removed

         A. Wind waves
         B. Elasticity
         C. Delineator
         D. Wave Crest
         Answer: Elasticity

488. it is the distance between the center of rigidity and center of mass
         A. Wave trough
         B. Eccentricity
         C. Object Height
         D. Gravity waves
         Answer: Eccentricity

489. the structure is subjected to a cycle of stresses and ______, it causes the beam to have
sudden ultimate structure

         A. Faulting
         B. Fatigue
         C. Raveling
         D. Curing
         Answer: Fatigue

490. besides the epicenter, it describes the location of the earthquake
         A. Focal depth
         B. Wave height
         C. Breakwater
         D. Time Points
         Answer: Focal depth

491. the material has the same composition at every point but the elastic may not be the same in
all direction

         A. Clear Zone
         B. Microscopic
         C. Homogenous
         D. Edge Line
         Answer: Homogenous

492. stress is proportional to the strain within the elastic region
         A. Geotextiles
         B. Dwell Time
         C. Hookes Law
         D. Swell waves
         Answer: Hookes Law

493. The material has the same elastic properties in all direction
         A. Resonance
         B. Joint Bars
         C. Dry Dock
         D. Isotropic
         Answer: Isotropic

494. retarding force acting opposite in motion
         A. Kinetic Friction
         B. Derived Utility
         C. Time mean speed
         D. Transition curves
         Answer: Kinetic Friction

495. it is measured by the Ritcher scale
         A. Overburden pressure
         B. Superelevation transition
         C. Magnitude of earthquake
         D. Right Turn Slip Lanes
         Answer: Magnitude of earthquake

496. The composite material exhibits elastic properties in one direction different from that in the
perpendicular direction

         A. Orthotropic
         B. Band Width
         C. Time headway
         D. Roundabouts
         Answer: Orthotropic

497. the deformation of axially loaded members, the ratio of the lateral to the longitudinal strain is
constant

         A. Reynolds Number
         B. Compound curve
         C. Poisson's Ratio
         D. Transition Lines
         Answer: Poisson's Ratio

498. stressing high strength steel after the concrete has been cast and has attained sufficient
strength

         A. Cost of borrow
         B. Hydraulic Jump
         C. Post tensioning
         D. Chevron Markings
         Answer: Post tensioning

499. stressing high strength steel wires before concrete hardens
         A. Average speed
         B. Pre tensioning
         C. Policy Headways
         D. Traffic volume
         Answer: Pre tensioning

500. A condition that when there is already a permanent deformation, it continues to deform when
a minimal load is applied beyond the elastic

         A. Geotextiles
         B. Delineator
         C. Prime coat
         D. Plasticity
         Answer: Plasticity

501. it refers to the rigidity of a structure
         A. Right Turn Slip Lanes
         B. Ultimate net bearing capacity
         C. Super elevation run off
         D. Reciprocal of deflection
         Answer: Reciprocal of deflection

502. it refers to flexibility of a structure Relaxation -Loss of stress that takes place with the
passage of time as concrete is held at a constant strain

         A. Entrance Ramp Marking
         B. Raised Pavement Markers
         C. Ultimate bearing capacity
         D. Reciprocal of stiffness
         Answer: Reciprocal of stiffness

503. it refers to the ability of a material to absorb energy in the elatsic range
         A. Resilience
         B. Turn Lines
         C. Settlement
         D. Delineator
         Answer: Resilience

504. Refers to the large amplitude vibration of an object or system when given impulses at its
natural frequency

         A. Guide sign
         B. Resonance
         C. Screeding
         D. Tack coat
         Answer: Resonance

505. ne in which the lateral stiffness is less than 70 percent of the stiffness of the story above
         A. Gage Bars
         B. Time Points
         C. Amplitude
         D. Soft Story
         Answer: Soft Story

506. determines whether the body will be in equilibrium or will have a varying state of motion Static
it refers to the force generated by a body at rest

         A. Resultant
         B. Earthwork
         C. Time Gaps
         D. Bulkhead
         Answer: Resultant

507. it is the displacement of one level relative to the level above or below
         A. Story Drift
         B. Sea island
         C. Settlement
         D. Guide sign
         Answer: Story Drift

508. occurs when the center of mass and rigidity do not coincide
         A. Superelevation transition
         B. Super elevation run off
         C. Atmospheric pressure
         D. Torsional Shear Stress
         Answer: Torsional Shear Stress

509. the material deforms considerably even with a slight increase in stress
         A. Pavement
         B. Dry Dock
         C. Duration
         D. Yielding
         Answer: Yielding

510. it refers to the ability of a material to absorb energy in the plastic range
         A. Bathymetry
         B. Bernoulli
         C. a. Wharf
         D. Toughness
         Answer: Toughness

511. it is the constant of proportionality that defines the linear relationship between stress and
strain

         A. Cost of borrow
         B. Painted Median
         C. Young's Modulus
         D. Transition Lines
         Answer: Young's Modulus
